[Page: Bank]

Abankis a facility that allowsplayersto deposit, store, and withdraw theiritems. It is indicated on theworld mapwith a dollar ()icon. It is usually a standalone building, but sometimes takes the form of achestor even (rarely) anon-player character.
Within a bank, free-to-play accounts may store up to 400 stacks of items, while members can store up to 800. An additional 20 spaces are given if the player has aBank PIN, another 20 spaces if they haveRuneScape Authenticatoractivated on their account, and another 20 spaces if their account is linked to aJagex Account. Players may also increase their bank space by buying blocks of 40 bank spaces, up to 9 times, bringing the highest number of spaces a player can have to 820 onfree-to-playworlds or 1,220 onmembersworlds.
Banks were once popular locations fortradingas players were right beside where they keep most of their money and items. However, with the introduction of theGrand Exchangeon26 February2015, most transactions are now conducted there.
Ultimate Ironmanaccounts are blocked from storing items in a bank.
Players may access their bank account by right-clicking a banker or bank booth or by speaking to a banker and going through their dialogue.
Bankers are NPCs who operate banks. They are present in nearly every bank, including the Grand Exchange, standing behind a bank booth or desk. Mosthumanbankers can be identified by their grey suits or by a huge sack on their backs (to represent the banked items that they have stored). Bankers of other races, such asghostbankers,gnomebankers,fairybankers,elvenbankers, ordwarvenbankers, can also be found in banks in areas inhabited by those races. Players can speak to them to learn about how to use the bank, set a bank PIN or buy additional bank spaces.
A player may left-click a bank booth to directly access their bank account. Players may also usenoteson a bank booth to convert them to the items they represent.
Ultimate Ironman accounts may use the un-noting feature of bank booths even though they are otherwise blocked from using banks.
Bank chests provide the same functionality as bank booths. They are available in places such as in theLumbridge Castlecellar (during and after theRecipe for Disasterquest), theEmir's Arena, and manyminigamessuch asBlast Furnace. They are also available in many safe areas ofPvp worlds.
Bank deposit boxesallow players to deposit items into their bank without having to enter the Bank PIN; however, players cannot withdraw items or view the contents of their bank account. Players may use items directly on a bank deposit box to deposit them into their bank, or open the bank deposit box and select items from their inventory to store using the interface. They are available in most banks and in other key locations such as inPort Khazard. They are typically cylindrical in shape.
There are many banks scattered throughoutRuneScape, and may be located in theworld mapwith the dollar sign ()icon.
Some banking services charge commission. It may be a percentage of what's being deposited, orcoins; an example of this is theDwarven Boatmaneast ofArzinian Mine's entrance, who will store players'gold orefor 20 percent commission (or 10 percent withRing of charos (a)), rounded up.
Several banks have inaccessible areas, such as stairs, doors, fences, and basements. It is unclear what is actually in some of these areas.
It is often desirable to access a bank as fast as possible while performing certain tasks. While skilling a player may desire to deposit items created while skilling (ex.Runes). Players also often deposit items and restock supplies after combat for example fighting a boss.
Players can open their bank account to deposit or withdraw items in several ways:
When a player has access to their bank, they can deposit items from theirinventory. Players can deposit 1, 5, 10,n(the last value entered for the "Withdraw-X" option), "All", or "X" (custom amount) items in one menu. The "X" option allows a player to specify the quantity of items to be deposited, and lock in the custom amount asnuntil another "X" amount is entered. This feature is useful for players depositing the same number of items repeatedly, such as duringRunecraftandFletching.
Some banks charge commission for using their services. TheDwarven BoatmanandOdovacarare examples of this.
Some items, such as mostexperience itemsand manyquest items, cannot be stored in a bank. If a player attempts to do so, they will receive a chatbox message stating, "A magical force prevents you from banking this item!" or another similar message depending on the item. Manyitems with charge or degradation mechanicscan be stored in the bank, but storing multiple of the same item will not stack them into a single bank space unless they have the same number of charges. Other items such asseed packsandsupply cratescannot be stacked in the bank at all, causing each item to take up a separate bank slot.
Players can withdraw their items by either using a bank booth or talking to abanker. The bank account access procedure is similar to the deposit process. Once players have access to their bank account, they can then withdraw the required items. Similar to the deposit process, the player has several options for withdrawals:
The "Collect" right-click option on bank booths and bankers opens the player's Grand Exchange collection box, where players can receive the money they earned or items they bought from Grand Exchange transactions. This feature is available on all banks in Gielinor, so players may collect items from any bank in any location without having to make a trip to the Grand Exchange.
The collection box interface shows the status of all of the player's active trades. Completed trades are shown in green. On-going trades (i.e. large quantities or items which are difficult to buy/sell) may be collected bit by bit as the trade goes through.
A bank is initially limited to 400 slots forfree-to-playplayers.Membersget additional 400 bank slots up to a total of 800.
Additional bank slots can be purchased by speaking to aBankerand selecting, "I'd like to buy more bank slots.".
The table below contains the costs of unlocking additional bank spaces. The cost of unlocking additional bank spaces roughly doubles after each unlock. Note that the total numbers of bank spaces does only include the additional slots unlocked by buying them.
On top of this, any player can unlock 20 extra bank slots for setting aBank PIN, another 20 bank slots for enabling theAuthenticatorfor their account, and another 20 bank slots if their account is linked to aJagex Account. The 20 bank spaces granted for having a bank PIN will only be available after the bank PIN is officially enabled, one week after it has been requested. This brings the highest number of spaces a player can have to 820 on thefree-to-playworlds or 1,220 onmembersworlds, for a total cost of888,000,000.
The use of a 4-digitBank PIN(Personal Identification Number) adds a significant extra layer of security to anaccount. It is optional, but recommended. Players may speak to any banker to change their PIN settings, including enabling and disabling it.
When the PIN is active, players must enter the four-digit number the first time they use the bank, theGrand Exchange, or aSTASH unit, after logging in. They need not enter it again for as long as they remain logged in. They can also use a setting in the PIN settings menu to toggle not to require the PIN if the player logs out for less than five minutes.
This means that even if ahackeris able to log in with someone else's username and password, the most they will be able to steal is any wielded items and whatever is in theinventory. They will not be able to access the contents of the bank or any cash or items on the Grand Exchange without knowing the PIN. Therefore, it is essential that the PIN be hard to guess.
Clicking the "Show worn items" icon on the top left corner of the bank interface allows players to equip their armour and weapons without having to exit the bank interface. It can also be accessed by pressing the F-key bound to Worn Equipment.
Players can create up to nine tabs in their bank with which to help organise their items. With this feature, players may store items with similar characteristics together, such as placing their items used in theFarmingskill in one tab and theirFishingitems in another tab. Many players have a "Quest" tab, a "Tools" tab, and an "Armour & Weapons" tab, as there are many items that fall within these three categories.
New tabs are created by dragging and dropping items to the "+" icon, creating a new tab with the dragged item as the first item. Each tab is identified with an icon of the first item in it, which changes if the player changes the first item in the bank. By using the bank settings menu (accessed via the button in the upper-right corner of the bank interface), the player can choose to have bank tabs display numbers or Roman numerals instead of the first item in them.
The "All" tab (labelled with the infinity symbol) shows all the items in the player's bank, with items not sorted into tabs shown first and dividing lines separating the bank's tabs.
To remove a bank tab, the tab may be right-clicked and the 'Collapse tab' option selected, putting all items in it back into the main tab. A tab is also automatically removed if it is empty.
TheShow tutorialbutton is turned on by default and is right next to theclosebutton in the top right corner. The tutorial is mainly designed for new players, and can be turned off in the bank settings.
Players can purchase thePotion storagefromMastering Mixology reward shopfor a combined cost of 7,750 Mox resin, 6,300 Aga resin and 8,950 Lye resin. Potion storage is opened from inside the bank interface. Potions stored here do not count toward used bank space. The bank settings also allow players to always deposit applicable items to the potion storage automatically.
The item incinerator destroys stacks of items in the bank. Note that extreme care is advised when using this feature, as it permanently destroys items and there is no way to reverse this.
The incinerator can be turned on by accessing the settings button found in the top right corner of the bank interface, then clicking on the item incinerator option. After this is done there will be a new icon in the bottom left of the interface to indicate the item incinerator is active. Drag the stack of items over the incinerator icon and a confirmation prompt will be given. After confirming this will destroy the selected (stack of) item(s).
The incinerator destroys the entire stack dragged onto it. There is no way to incinerate only a select amount of the items, however, the player can simply withdraw the items in noted form and drop them.
With the "Swap" option selected, drag an item on top of another to 'swap' their places in the bank. Thus, item (A) is swapped when another item (B) is dragged and dropped onto the item.
Conversely, the "Insert" option allows players to drag an item in the space before or after another item to "insert" it, moving all other subsequent items along one space. Thus, item (B) will be inserted in between items (before item A), moving all items that follow along one space.
TheItem/Notetoggle button is used to toggle withdrawals between item form andnotedform. If this toggle is set to "Note," most unstackabletradeable itemsitems withdrawn from the bank will be withdrawn as notes. Notes are always stackable, allowing large amounts of items to be withdrawn or traded without taking up a large amount of inventory space. Storing a note in a bank, selling it to a shop, or using it on a bank booth or banker will convert the note to its item equivalent.
InRuneScape Classic, notes did not exist, but instead players would trade in bulk usingcertificates, which could only be made for certain items. Certificates were made by bringing the desired items to the "certer" NPCs, instead of simply withdrawing from the bank in certificate form. Every certificate was equivalent to five regular items.
The numbered buttons (1,5,10,XandAll) are used to change what quantity of the item is withdrawn or deposited when left-clicking. The X option by default uses the last set custom quantity, which can be set by right-clicking on an item and selecting "Withdraw-X" or by right-clicking the X option in the quantity toggle.
Bank placeholders allow the player to reserve bank slots for specific items, giving them the ability to create a fixed layout for their bank. To create a placeholder, right-click an item in the bank and click the 'Placeholder' option. This will withdraw the items in the bank slot, leaving a placeholder in their place.
Some items, such as amulets, will sometimes share a bank space. Potions of the same kind with different numbers of doses can not share placeholders.
TheSearchbutton is used for finding items in the bank. After pressing the "Search" button, the player can type all or part of the name of the item they are looking for and the bank interface will filter out all items whose names do not contain what the player entered. This provides easy access to rarely used items that need to be found quickly or to items that have many versions that look similar such as herbs.
Clicking theDeposit inventorybutton allows players to quickly dump all the items in theirinventoryinto their bank. Players can disable this button by unchecking the option in the bank settings menu.
Clicking theDeposit worn itemsbutton allows players to deposit the items they are wearing into their bank. Players can disable this button by unchecking the option in the bank settings menu.
Additional settings can be accessed by clicking the spanner in the top-right corner of the bank interface.
Enables configuring charges on some items, such aspowered staves, via a right-click menu entry. In contrast to setting a global charge threshold by speaking toHofuthand, this option allows the player to set different automatic charging thresholds for each configured item. To do so, enable the bank item options setting, then right-click on the banked item and select Configure-Charges. On being withdrawn in the future, the item will attempt to automatically refill itself up to the specified number of charges. A game message will inform the player if there were not enough resources in the bank to sufficiently charge a withdrawn item. The automatic charging behavior will remain enabled even if the bank item options setting is disabled. It can be disabled by setting the configured number of charges on an item to 0.
Players can right click various items in the inventory, such as food, potions and equipment to interact with them without exiting the bank interface.
Deposit locks allow players to prevent items in specified inventory slots from being deposited in the bank. This can be useful at activities such as trainingRunecraftat theOurania altar, where players can use theDeposit inventorybutton to deposit crafted runes in one click without depositing theirrune pouchandessence pouch. Note that these locks are per-slot, not per-item - an item may still be deposited if moved into an unlocked slot.
Bank fillerscan be added to the bank by using the bank settings button in the top right corner of the bank interface. Doing so fills the player's bank with the selected amount of useless fillers. Bank fillers can be cleared with a right-click option or by using the bank settings menu.
Having a bank full of filler items allows players to decide which items they want deposited when using theDeposit inventoryorDeposit worn itemsbuttons. For example, if players are craftingleatheritems, they can remove the needle and thread from their bank, enable the bank fillers, and be able to use theDeposit inventorybutton to deposit everything except their needle and thread, as their bank would have no space to hold them because all of the space is taken up by bank fillers.
When entering a custom amount to withdraw or deposit, the player can type "k", "m", or "b" for 'thousand', 'million', and 'billion' respectively. A player who wants to withdraw "1,000,000" coins, for instance, may simply type "1m". The shortcuts do not work together, however, so if a player wanted to withdraw 1 billion (1,000,000,000) they would not be able to type '1km' or '1mk'.
The bank settings now include an option for showing bank item options.
A game message now appears upon attempting to deposit an item with 2,147,483,647 of said item in the bank.
Players who have migrated their account to aJagex Accountwill now receive 20 additional bank slots.
The 'Release all placeholders' button in the Bank now has a confirmation warning.
Ultimate Iron accounts can no longer purchase extra bank slots.
The bank no longer scrolls up or down when items are dragged towards the incinerator.
Banks renamed from "Bank of RuneScape" to "Bank of Gielinor".
Buttons along the bottom to determine left-click withdraw quantity were added on the desktop client.
Players can now get eight bank spaces for enabling bank PIN and another eight for enablingauthenticator.
Right-clicking a bank tab will now give you the option of removing all placeholders within that tab.
Deposit inventory button can now be disabled.
Bank fillerswere added.
Item incinerator was added.
Bank placeholders were added.
Using an item on any longbow inside a bank now correctly produces the nothing interesting happens message.
The one tick delay present when you used bank booths rather than bankers in Port Phasmatys has been removed – on top of this, a bank booth in Port Phasmatys was not giving a message for players not using an amulet of ghostspeak; this has been fixed.
Bank space increased to 800 for members.
Thepoll boothsin Seers Village and in Ardougne south bank have been returned.
Some bankspace checks have been amended to supportUltimate ironmanaccounts.
Spam clicking the last item in a bank tab will no longer withdraw the first item from the next tab.
Bank space increased to 600 for members.
9 new bank tabs were added.
Players now have 24 more bank spaces.
The bank now has a 'Withdraw-All-but-one' option. The various Withdraw and Deposit options have been re-ordered slightly in response to your feedback.
When rearranging your bank, you should no longer see ghostly outlines of items that are no longer there.
The bank scroll now remembers its position when you close the bank interface.
Your bank will now remember your Swap/Insert preference over logout.
