[Page: Giants' Foundry]

Giants' Foundryis aSmithingminigamein which players are tasked with creating giant weapons forKovac. To participate in the minigame, players must complete theSleeping Giantsquest.
The minigame was first pitched ina blogon19 April2022andsubsequently polledwith 90.3% of the votes in favour of its addition. It was released on8 June2022.
To participate in The Giants' Foundry you will require the following items:
The Giants' Foundry is located in a cave beneath theGiants' Plateau. Players can get there by using:
The followingmoney making guideis available for Giants' Foundry:
See a more visual representation of Giants' Foundry gameplayhere, from a Q&A withMod Oasis.
In the minigame, players are tasked byKovacto create weapons for othergiants, using the machinery around the foundry.
Players must pick up a commission from Kovac, set the mould, fill the crucible, and pour the desired liquid metal. Abank chestis freely available near the crucible.
The crucible canonlybe filled with metalbarsor metal items that can be produced using theSmithingskill, and that have a cost of at least 2 bars. This specifically excludes items such asblack/white equipment,dragon equipment, as well astrimmed armoursets, among others, as they cannot be made using this skill.
Commissions define the kind of blade players will be making based on two descriptive words. For example, Kovac will instruct the player to make a sword that is "narrow" and "spiked". Players will need to keep that description in mind when choosing a mould from Kovac's Mould Library for the best matching one. The closer the match, the higher quality the sword will be when players start forging. Note that the points gained here won't affect how difficult it is to make the sword; that is instead determined by the type of metal players choose.
With the mould set, players must move on to the crucible (the big stone vessel chained above the lava), which stores the molten metal bars that are heated up in the forging process. The crucible will accept up to 28 standard metal bars (the amount required to smith a giant's sword), as well as metal weapons and armour, though the weapons and armour will be worth one less bar than it takes to make them. Attempting to insert items worth more bars than the crucible has space for will warn the player that any excess metal will be destroyed. The crucible can be emptied if incorrect items are inserted, but this willdestroyall metal inside.
Once the crucible has been filled, the molten metal can be poured into the mould. A crucible cannot be poured if another preform has already been poured and not yet handed in.
The higher the tier of metal that is chosen, the more steps it will take to forge the sword, and temperature will have to be regulated more strictly. Swords made of an alloy (a mixture of two or more different metals) yield better results. Commissions may be cancelled by talking to Kovac.
The refinement process involves shaping the raw preform into a giant's sword.
Players have a variety of tools at their disposal:
Use the right tool at the right temperature to increase the sword's completion to 100%. For each successful use of a machine (not the waterfall or the lava pool), a small amount ofSmithingexperience is awarded. Players can track which tool to use at which heat range using the in-game HUD. When an indicator arrow actually lies within a certain range of temperature or progress, that block of temp/progress gains a white border, aiding with cases where the indicator may be right at the edge of a range or in between steps.
Using tools changes the temperature of the preform, which will also naturally cool down over time. Using the incorrect tool, or using the right tool outside the correct temperature range, will damage the sword and reduce its quality. If the quality of the sword reaches 0, players will have to hand it over to Kovac and try again.Quality cannot be regained or increased.
Sweet Spot -Occasionally, the entire refinement HUD will gain a thick yellow/gold border, indicating a window for a sweet spot, which is open for approximately 6 seconds (10ticks). They appear only while a player is working a machine, immediately after the machine ticks. During this time, clicking the machine againoncewill change the border to green, which results in a large amount of progress gain (around 5%) upon the machine's next tick. However, the required tool and temperature as displayed on the HUD stillmustbe observed and ignoring this will result in damage to the preform instead. The sweet spot may frequently push progress into the next section and require a new tool, so the player should be ready to click away from the machine before the machine ticks again. Clicking the machine repeatedly off this bonus window will cause the next action to be skipped and willnotdamage the preform.
These progress bonuses will only be offered a certain number of times per sword (6 and 7 section swords get three sweet spots, otherwise there are two). Missing a sweet spot wastes it; it still counts towards the limit. Most commonly, they appear once per section, relatively evenly distributed along the refinement progress, but this is not a firm rule - they may appear less evenly.
More information about refinement technique can be found in the minigames'strategy guide.
If players manage to reach 100% completion without ruining the sword, they can hand it to Kovac, who'll reward players with a lump sum ofSmithingexperience,coins, andfoundry reputation. The player'srun energyis also restored by 50%. The higher the quality of the sword, the greater the rewards they receive. The gold reward is deposited directly into player's bank and the player receives a chat message noting such, in addition to the total amount of swords produced thus far. Ultimate Ironmen will get the gold reward in their inventory.
The player is shown the sword's final quality and the time taken to complete the sword, which begins the moment they are assigned a commission and is stopped with the hand-in, but using preform storage does not pause this time. The current personal best (PB) result is also displayed: PB is determined by the highest quality achieved, time is only taken into account when a sword of equal quality is handed in, in which case shorter is better.
The player may ask to be issued a new commission immediately, in which case the entire gameplay loop (and the sword timer) starts anew.
The quality of a sword determineshow much experience it rewards, the amount of reputation rewarded, and also the difficulty of making the sword. The initial quality of the sword is equal to themetal scoreplus themould score, and can be as low as 10 (all bronze bars, no matching mould) and as high as 199 (equal parts adamant and runite, +69 mould). 10 quality points are lost whenever you damage the sword by using the wrong tool or at the wrong temperature. If you completely ruin the quality of the sword this way, you will stop being able to work on the sword anymore. This will put the messageThis sword is too damaged to keep working. You should give it to Kovac and try again.into the chatbox, and Kovac will only give you 30 coins and 60 Smithing XP for the 0 quality sword, regardless of materials or moulds.
Sword quality is primarily determined by the quality of metal used. While higher tier metals give more points than lower tier metals, the best way to gain points is to combine multiple types of metal in the crucible, making an alloy. For example, an entirely rune sword has a base value of 60, but a sword made of equal parts adamant and rune has over double the base value, at 130. Adding bars to the crucible requires the same level as smelting that type of ore in afurnace. Players can usetemporary booststo add higher tier bars to the crucible. The crucible can also be filled without needing to finish the previous commission, so one boost can fill the metal for two swords.
The formula for an approximate alloy's valueVtotalis:
Vtotal=⌊⌊10V1⌋+⌊10V2⌋+⌊V1V2⌋10⌋,whereVn=10×Tiern×Amountn28forn∈{1,2}
Here,Tieris equal to 1 for bronze, 2 for iron, and so on up to 6 for rune.Amountis the number of bars (or equivalent) of that metal present in the alloy. Alloys with more than two metals present (e.g. a mixture of steel, mithril, and adamant) negatively impact metal score as the metal of lowest amount is disregarded, making its de-facto bar slots contribute nothing to the score. In the equation above only the two most abundant metals are used asV1andV2. Ties prefer the more valuable metal. If a pure metal is used, then that metal is used asV1and a value of0is used forV2.
Lovakite,Blurite, andelementalequipment or bars cannot be used.
The following table displays some example scores. Alloys are particularly chosen so that their score is the highest possible for a given difficulty, which may be useful for some players starting out with the minigame. The most optimal alloys are available in thestrategy guide.
Note: these are examples of alloys, for optimal alloys, visit the strategy guide.
Players may also break down metal weapons and armour that can be created through theSmithingskill that use at least two bars to create, which provides an amount equal to one fewer bar than used to create the item.
The higher the metal score of the sword, the harder it is to make. This manifests in the number of distinct hammer/grind/polish sections to be completed:
Additionally, the size of the temperature bars decreases as the metal score increases, scaling linearly down to half of the full size at 130 points. It may be worthwhile to purposefully lower the metal score to obtain swords of lower difficulty to learn playing the minigame.
The mould score is the sum of the bonuses for the two styles in your commission. The very best possible mould score is 69 points on a Light Flat commission, using optimal moulds. With only default moulds, the best possible score is 46 points on a Narrow Heavy commission. Other commissions have best possible scores in the high 50s to 60s. The very worst commission is Broad Light at 24 (default moulds) or 49 (optimal moulds) points.
The mould score does not affect the difficulty of the sword in any way. It is recommended to always use the best available moulds and to unlock the optimal ones as soon as possible.
The following table contains a list of all Giants' Foundry mould pieces that are unlocked by default:
The table below lists all of the purchasable moulds and their requirements. Purchasing all of them costs a total of 5400foundry reputationpoints. You may boost to buy and use moulds that you do not have the level for, but you willNOTbe able to use them if your level drops below the requirement before pouring the melted metal into the mould. Once poured, you can finish off the preform, even if your level drops below the requirement for the moulds used in making the preform.
The following table contains a list of the best mould combinations for various objectives. It assumes you want to maximise the sum of both objectives. If the player already meets the level requirement to use all of the purchasable moulds, then there is no need to purchase the Juggernaut Forte and the Corrupted Point moulds from the shop, as they are never optimal. The Juggernaut Forte mould becomes obsolete at level 79, and the Corrupted Point mould at level 60.
The average mould score using the optimal default moulds is 38.
Default moulds are highlighted inbold.
The average mould score using optimal purchased moulds is 59.
The player will be gaining small amounts ofSmithingexperience throughout the refinement process:
Catching a sweet spot doubles the experience gain of the next use.
Most of the experience, however, is gained from handing in a sword as you finish the minigame. This experience dump is based solely on a sword's qualityq, whereq=mould score+metal score-mistakes.
The amount of Smithing experience gained for turning in a sword with qualityqis
(⌊q273⌋+⌊1.5q⌋+1)×30
Which ranges from 30 experience for turning in a sword of 0 quality, up to 25,230 experience for a sword with the maximum quality of 199.
More detailed earning rates for experience and gold are available in thestrategy guide.
Jagex provided the following comparison tables in thepatch noteson release:
Assuming you are creating swords with 14 bars of mithril and adamant, or adamant and rune, the table below illustrates the expected average experience received per bar used:
Players can gainFoundry Reputationby completing commissions. Reputation is awarded equal to the final quality for the sword, calculated by adding the metal and mould scores and subtracting 5 for each mistake. It can be spent on additional moulds for each preform section, allowing for a higher base mould score at the beginning of forging, or in the Reward Shop.
In addition, a gold reward based on the quality of the sword is also received. The gold reward is calculated as double the experience reward. Because of this, it is possible for forging swords to be profitable, especially using steel bars or a 14/14 steel and mithril blend, assuming no mistakes and optimal moulds are used.
Kovac will now buy back all items from the Giants' Foundry Reward Shop, besides the Colossal blade and Kovac's grog, for 80% of their purchase price.
Concept art of the Giants' Foundry byMod Jerv.
Initial concept art for the Smiths' Uniform, byMod Soffan.
Updated concept art for the Smiths' Uniform.
