[Page: Grand Exchange]

TheGrand Exchange, commonly referred to as theGE, is a trading system for players to purchase and sell tradeable items inOld School RuneScape. It was released on26 February2015followinga content pollwhere it passed by 76.3%, narrowly passing the 75% threshold.Membersget eight Grand Exchange slots, each of which may be used to either buy or sell items; however,free playersare limited to three. Additionally, free players may only purchase free-to-play items, and not members' items.
In the event that a member lists a sell offer and then their membership expires prior to fulfillment, the trade remains active and the item will sell when the price rises. No restriction exists on selling items, regardless of memberships status. However, if a player has been logged out for several days, any unfulfilled offers will pause until they log back in.
Traders do not need to advertise, meet each other, or even wait at the Grand Exchange for trades to finish, becausecoinsand items from fully and partially finished trades can be collected at anybank. Additionally, players will receive a message in their chatbox when the status of a trade offer is updated. This trading system resembles a real-life electronic asset exchange and has since replaced thetrading postand the older marketplaces inVarrockandFalador.
Ironmenthat use the Grand Exchange are redirected to a unique interface that allows them to purchasebondswhile disallowing them from buying or selling any other item. There is also aloot chest, which non-ironmanplayer-killersmay use to cash inloot keysfrom players they killed.
Due to its location and economic importance, the Grand Exchange is one of the most popular locations in the game world. It is usually the most populated area on the map outside of bosses and minigames on themed worlds, which sometimes causes issues with loading player avatars due to the large number of people in one place. As such, it is often considered the game'spublic squareon any given server, and both standard accounts and ironmen regularly use the Grand Exchange for social interaction with other players.
The Grand Exchange is located north-west ofVarrockand east ofEdgeville, both of which are located just south of theWilderness. There are many ways to get there, including the following:
Exact details on the internals of the Grand Exchange are not publicly known. However, some parts of its operation are understood through experience.
Players interact with the Grand Exchange by making buy and sell offers for items, at prices of their choosing. Trades succeed when one player's buy offer is greater than or equal to another player's sell offer. The actual price a successful trade occurs at depends on which side made the offer first:
If multiple buy or sell offers exist at same price, older offers are loosely prioritised over newer ones when matching.[1]
When creating a trade offer, the initial price is set to a guide value. This guide is automatically updated based on the trade history of the item and is intended to represent its approximate market value.
WhileJagexhas never published the Grand Exchange's exact pricing algorithms, guide prices are generally governed by the laws ofsupply and demand:
The prices of items are updated based on their recently traded prices and volume. For items with low trade volume such aspartyhats, their prices update every few days or even once a week, and can be inaccurate. Jagex can also intervene and set the prices themselves, and they reserve the right to intervene when they believe price manipulation is occurring on an inexcusable scale, or when items that appear more expensive than their actual value are used for scamming. TheGrand Exchange Market Watchcontains up-to-date information on the prices for various items.
The guide prices are also a basis forDeath's Coffersacrifices andItems Kept on Deathmechanics.
Mostarmoursets and thedwarf multicannoncan be assembled into sets to save space. They behave like ordinary items except that they cannot be worn or used until disassembled. Only the Grand Exchange clerks and bankers can assemble or disassemble sets, and they will do so an unlimited number of times for free.
Ultimate ironmenmay not assemble items into sets.
Around the Grand Exchange are six pricing experts who show the current prices of various items.
Additionally,Jamescan be found outside the Grand Exchange main entrance, and gives information aboutmembership bonds.
The buying rate is restricted to a certain quantity every 4 hours. Some items have a connected limit, meaning that you can only buy a certain amount of either item, or a mix of the two up to a particular point. For example, if the player has reached the limit on 4-dosePrayer potions, they cannot buy Prayer potions of fewer doses. However, there are no restrictions on selling items.
Volume is a measure of the quantity of items that have been traded on the Grand Exchange. This number is not directly available in-game, but can be viewed on the officialOld School RuneScapeGrand Exchange website database. Items that commonly have high daily volume are supplies likerunesandores, as well as ranged weapons likearrows,dartsandcannonballs.
Some items cannot be traded using the Grand Exchange, but can still be traded using traditional player-to-player trade. For example,burnt foodscannot be traded with the GE service, and have no in-game value.
Other items with a similar property include partially charged jewellery (games necklace) or equipment (black mask), half-eaten food items (slice of cake), recipe items (uncooked cake),currency(platinum tokens) and Castle Warsbandages.
Newfree-to-playaccounts have trade restrictions in place until the account's logged in time surpasses 20 hours of game time, 10 or morequest pointsare acquired,andreaching 100 total level.[2]Such restrictions include a block from selling certain items on theGrand Exchange. This restriction is in place to help preventbottedand black-market goods from entering the economy, as many of the accounts are caught and banned before they can be logged in for 20 hours in total.[3]
A quick way to reach the quest point requirement is to complete the following quests:
Most transactions on the Grand Exchange are subject to a 1% tax, orconvenience fee, capped at a maximum of 5 million coins per item. The money from this tax is then collected byJagex; most is removed from the game, while a small amount is used to purchase select items from other players and delete them from the game to regulate their price. Both of these features were implemented on9 December2021in the (unpolled)Grand Exchange Tax & Item Sinkupdate.
The 1% tax rounds down to the nearest whole number, so items sold for below 100 coins have a tax of less than one coin, and so have no tax obligation. Note that this means the seller receives 99 coins if they set the price per item to99orto100, but in the latter case, the buyer pays a single additional coin to the tax. This generalises to all transactions with a price that is an exact multiple of 100: the seller receives 198 coins if they set the price per item to199orto200, and so on. This is rarely significant, as single coin difference is irrelevant for all but the cheapest items, but it does mean that undercutting a sell offer for any exact multiple of 100 coins is effectively free.
The following items are periodically purchased by Jagex (from players) using funds from the convenience fee; they are then deleted from the game to better control market supply and prevent item devaluation. This is the most prominent example of an in-gameitem sink.
The following items are exempt from the convenience fee:
The Grand Exchange is accessible in a limited form to Ironman accounts. Ironmen are allowed to use the Grand Exchange to purchasebondsvia a special interface that does not permit them to buy or sell any non-bond item in the game. They are also not allowed to sell bonds.
Players may now set their own +x% and -x% values in the Grand Exchange by right clicking the button to alter the value.
All transactions on the Grand Exchange are now subject to a 1% tax. Additionally, certain items are now purchased from the GE by Jagex using said tax money and deleted from the game to regulate their price.
Ironmen can now use the Grand Exchange to purchase (but not sell) bonds.
The last item searched will now be remembered until players search for a new item, or log out.
A missing tile of mud in the Grand Exchange has been added.
A button has been added to the top-left of the Grand Exchange interface which allows you to quickly access your Grand Exchange history.
The Grand Exchange interface now truncates text more appropriately so that item names do not extend outside of their box.
Members now have access to 8 Grand Exchange slots and free-to-play players have access to 3 Grand Exchange slots.
Some blue patches on the parts of the Grand Exchange have been removed.
Additional item sets have been added to the Grand Exchange. You can now create sets of the following items by talking to the Grand Exchange clerks: God book page sets, Blessed Dragonhide sets, Partyhat set, and Halloween mask set
Increased buy rate limits for a number of items on the Grand Exchange.
Loading times should no longer be increased after searching on the Grand Exchange.
The following tweaks and additions were made based on feedback after release:
