[Page: Player-owned house]

Aplayer-owned house(often shortened toPOH) is the focus of theConstructionskill. It can be bought from anEstate agentfor1,000, or received for free upon completion of theminiquestDaddy's Home. Players' houses are located inRimmingtonby default but can be moved to one of 8 different cities for a fee by talking to an Estate agent, if the required (unboostable) Construction level is met. Players can enter the house throughhouse portals, labelled on theworld mapas. For a list of pros and cons on different locations consult thehouse portalpage. Owning a house is required for a player to use anexperience lampon the Construction skill.
Houses can be redecorated in different styles. This is a cosmetic change which affects the appearance of the ground, walls, and roofs of a house, but not the layout and features of the house. Redecoration can be done by speaking with any of the estate agents. There are multiple styles available to choose from, though they each require a certain construction level, and most cost a fee between 5,000 and 35,000 coins. Some styles have additional special requirements.
There are many different rooms that can be added to houses. The house a player buys will begin with agardenandparlour, but more rooms can be added. Different rooms will require different Construction levels and will cost money. New rooms can be added by right-clicking thedoor hotspotsor using theviewerwhile inbuilding mode.
The player's first house starts off with only a parlour and garden, but new rooms and furniture can be easily built.
In order to begin customising a house, a player must enter their house withbuilding modeturned on. This can be done either by entering portal in building mode or by changing the building mode settings in house options of the Settings menu. Changing the setting in the Settings menu while not in a house, the player will automatically be in building mode the next time they castTeleport to House. The player cannot drop items while in building mode and pets are not allowed. Building mode cannot be turned on while guests are in the house.
While in building mode, players will see white doors in the entryways of all their rooms. Right-clicking on these and selectingbuildwill allow the player to see a menu of all the rooms that can be built attached to that door. The player will also see the level requirement and the price of the new room. When a room is selected, the player will see a ghost version of the new room and will be able to rotate the room to any desired rotation provided that the doorways line up. If a room is occupying the spot the player wants to build, they are given the option to remove it, unless it is a menagerie or costume room, where it is moved instead to that location for the building fee.
A room can be removed in building mode by right-clicking the door to the room and selecting thebuildoption. This brings up a prompt asking if you want to remove the room. You cannot remove a room on theground floor[UK]1stfloor[US]that is supporting another room on the1stfloor[UK]2ndfloor[US]. This rule does not apply to dungeon rooms under theground floor[UK]1stfloor[US]rooms.
It is advisable to remove all the built items in a room before removing the room. In most cases, nothing is gained by removing items, but in some cases items are recovered. For example, armour, swords, and capes that are part of a display can be recovered.
Rooms can be moved using the House Viewer, which can be found within the house options in your settings tab.
The most important point to consider when designing the layout is which rooms are placed next to the garden portal. For beginning players, theworkshoporkitchencan be the best rooms next to the portal because they offer fast training methods such as building flatpacks or larders.Portal chambersare very useful to place directly adjacent to the portal, since this allows quick and easy access to teleports for when players wish to use their house as a teleport hub. Another room that is often put near the portal is achapel, which will allow players to train and recharge prayer more quickly.
Another important point to consider when building a house is which direction that rooms face. While this is not a huge concern for most rooms, some orientations can make moving through the house much faster. For example, normal staircases can be annoying if built facing the wrong direction unlikespiral staircases, which can be accessed from any side. When a staircase is added to a skill hall, it will connect to the room above or below by default if and only if the room is facing the proper direction. This restriction is in effect for both normal staircases and, even though they do not have a "direction", spiral staircases. Another good example is the orientation of theexit portal.
From level 1 to 25 Construction, a maximum of 24 rooms (including gardens) can be built. At level 26 and every 6 levels thereafter to level 92, an additional room can be built. One additional room can also be built at levels 96 and 99, for a maximum of 38.
There is also a maximum area that can be built on that also goes up with Construction level, starting at 3 rooms by 3 rooms up to 7 rooms by 7 rooms.
As your maximum house dimensions goes up, so does your yard space. Yard space increases by adding a row to the top of your current yard space, and a column to the right. You should plan accordingly should you desire a centred house, as increasing your construction over time will off-centre it.
The layout of a player-owned house can be changed for free at any time by entering building mode and using the 'Viewer' option in the House Options setting. Players can move rooms to meet their current requirements.
When planning a house layout, particular consideration should be given to the following criteria:
The following list of rooms shows the number and position of doors:
Other players may enter a host's house via theHouse Advertisementboard if advertised, or by selecting the 'Friend's house' option on theentrance portaland typing the host's name. Players will be unable to enter if the host's Private setting is off, even if their house is advertised. The guest must also be on the same world as the host.
Guests will remain in a house if the host leaves. Hosts may remove any player from their house by using the 'Kick' right-click option, or all guests with the 'Expel Guests' button in the house options, but neither will prevent re-entry. Players added to a host's Ignore list will not be able to enter.
A player who is teleblocked may still enter via the entrance portal.
Ironmenmay not access another player's house.Group Ironmencan enter the houses of other members of the group and teleport directly to them, provided they are online.
A max house is a house containing the highest level features that are considered useful to the average player. These include:
83Construction is the lowest Construction level needed for a max house, as it allows players to boost (+8 skill boost) with acrystal saw(+3 invisible skill boost) andspicy stew(+5 visible skill boost) to build anornate jewellery box.84Construction allows players to build acrystalline portal nexuswith both boosts, and90Construction allows players to plant aSpirit tree & fairy ringwith a spicy stew boost.
In officialhouse party worlds, many players who do not own a max house use other player's houses for the above amenities.
Players can view whose house is available by viewing thehouse advertisementboard next to eachhouse portal. This will list the above information in a menu that the player can select from to pick a house to go to.
Players using other players' houses typically teleport to outside of the house portal by turning Teleport Inside off in the House Options, as seen in the image below.
House loading times have been improved, and are now consistent regardless of the house's size[1]or presence of upper floors or dungeons.[2]
Wintumber trees and Pet rocks now respond more appropriately when a POH instance changes size.
Player-owned houses should now render more reliably for players who've lost Construction XP.
It is no longer possible to cause a POH throne to disappear by sitting on the adjacent throne.
Building mode can now be activated more consistently inside a player-owned house.
It is now possible to toggle whether teleporting to your house will place you inside your house or by the house portal.
Doors in player-owned houses can now only be closed by the host.
Watchtower & Camelot player-owned house portals & teleport tablets now teleport you to the new teleport location if you have them set.
The player-owned house options menu now has a new toggle button, allowing you to have your house rendered with its doors already open.
Owners now have a 'Kick' option to expel unwanted guests
Player-Owned Houses are now accessible enabling the proper training of Construction.
Old School RuneScapeservers are officially launched, with player-owned houses and the Construction skill disabled.
