[Page: Rogues' Den]

TheRogues' Denis a hideout located beneath a trapdoor inThe Toad and Chickeninn inBurthorpe, containing a variety ofThievingandAgilityrelated activities. While there are no entry requirements, its main attraction is the Maze exploration minigame, which requires 50 Agility and 50 Thieving (unboostable). The maze is notable for offering a chance to earn pieces ofRogue equipment, which provide a chance to receive double loot fromPickpocketing. Wearing the full set guarantees double loot.
Outside of the maze there are several shops, a fire next to a bank, and four wall safes with a chance to provideuncut gemsup todiamondor 20 to 40coinswhen cracked open.
Martin Thwaitruns the general storeMartin Thwait's Lost and Found, which sellsthrowing knives,claws,lockpicks, and other items. Access to the shop requires 50 Thieving and 50 Agility. It is notable for buying items at theirHigh Level Alchemyprice rather than theirLow Level Alchemyprice. Martin also sells theThieving capeandhoodto players with 99 Thieving.
Emerald Benedictruns thebank. He stands two tiles away from an everlastingfire, making him one of the three closest banks to aCookinglocation other than the range in theMyths' Guildand thesulphur ventinMor Ul Rek.
GracerunsGrace's Graceful Clothingwhich sells theGraceful outfitandAmylase packin exchange forMarks of grace.
In the middle of the waiting room, there are four wall safes that players can attempt to crack. Successful attempts yield uncut gems (up to diamonds), 20 or 40 coins, making it a convenient way to obtain uncut gems, especially forironmen.
TheStethoscopeboosts the chance of successfully cracking a wall safe while in your inventory, and can be purchased fromMartin Thwait's Lost and Foundin the same area.
Opening a wall safe is a task in thehard Falador diary.
The objective of the minigame is to get to the centre of the maze without getting caught in one of the many traps. Entering the maze requires level 50(not boostable)in both Thieving and Agility, and no items can be brought or worn inside.
Players must talk toBrian O'Richardto enter the maze before playing the first time; subsequent games can be started directly by entering the doorway. Upon entering the maze,Prayeris reduced to zero, andThievingandAgilityare set to their normal levels. Amystic jewelis placed in the inventory, which allows players to teleport back to the lobby at any time.
Navigating traps and obstacles in the maze reduces Thieving and Agility levels, respectively. These stats do not restore while inside the maze. If either skill would drop below zero, players are teleported back to the lobby.
At the end of the maze,wall safescan be cracked for a chance to receive unique rewards: aRogue's equipment crateor aRogue kit. Cracking the safe teleports players back to the lobby, where they also receive 12experiencein both Agility and Thieving for each level that has been drained from the respective skill.
If the maze is failed or otherwise left prematurely, only a fraction is rewarded of the 12xp per level drained, depending on distance into the maze at the moment of departure. Leaving the maze also restores Prayer, Thieving, and Agility to their normal levels.
Without using the level 80 Thieving shortcut, a single run can take about 3 minutes and 40 seconds to complete, assuming it began with 100%run energyand right after drinking a dose of astamina potion. With the level 80 Thieving shortcut, runs only take about 2 minutes to complete.
Note:As no items or gear are allowed inside of the maze, before entering, it is recommended to drink a single dose of a stamina potion and to drop or smash theempty vial.
Traps and dangerous obstacles are shown in yellow on the map. You immediately leave the maze if you trigger a trap or touch a dangerous obstacle. Traps can be disarmed by searching them; this uses upThievingpoints. Some traps can be run past or over without triggering them, without using up Thieving points. This is referred to as the "run trick".
Less-dangerous obstacles are shown in green. You use up a certain amount ofAgilitypoints when you pass these obstacles. They are not dangerous unless you run out of Agility points, in which case you will fail them and immediately leave the maze. Watch your Agility points and make sure you have at least six (6) points remaining for the last two obstacles.
All doors in the maze are one-way: you can only pass them in one direction. This includes the doors to go to the viewing gallery and even includes the first door you use to enter the maze. Passageways, however, are two-way.
Enter the Rogues' Den without any items in your inventory or equipped and without anyfollower. You will automatically receive amystic jewelto leave the Den whenever you want.
For the most efficient path through the maze, either follow the instructions to import thetile markersabove, or follow the below advice.
.
Be sure to left click on one of the blades otherwise your character will try to walk around them.
Walk over the ledge to the next room.
Click on the tile above the second trap, then on the one in the middle past all the traps.
ThenRUNpast the other three walls.
Grab the south-easterntile(see screenshot) and open the door. Click on the tile in the puzzle screen and you can proceed.
Go to the west and stand still right before the three wall traps, thenRUNpast them.
Do the same for the next room and click on the pendulum.
Watch out for the single floor trap in the small corridor after the pendulum.
Stop before the first floor trap andRUNpast all of them.
Then, use the powder on the guard andRUNpast him while he is stunned.
Move past the last two pendulums and you have completed the maze.
Note:There is a chance to fail the lockpicking and end up without reward.
You might want to use anEnergyorStamina potionbefore attempting the maze again.
At the end of the maze are wall safes that can be cracked in order to receive a reward. The wall safe opened has no effect on whether or not the attempt is successful.[1]
Players will also receive 12experienceper stat level drained in both Agility and Thieving. To maximize Agility experience players can jump back and forth at the last pendulum before the wall safe until the Agility level reaches between 0 and 5. At level 99 Agility and level 80 Thieving, up to 22k Agility xp per hour can be gained, along with a small amount of Thieving xp.
Players who successfully crack a wall safe are rewarded with one of the following items:
Per piece of equipment worn, there is a 15% chance of pickpocketing twice the loot from anNPC. Wearing the full set instead guarantees the double loot. Experience drops remain unaffected.
Players can store the full set in theirarmour casein thecostume roomof theirplayer-owned house.
Rogue's equipment crate
each attempt
to crack a safe
for full set
The percentage above includes failures to crack the safe as well as the chance of getting arogue kitinstead. As the success chance of a crack attempt is based on visible Thieving level, it will be influenced by any debuffs to your Thieving level suffered while navigating the maze. The calculations assume the player is taking no risks with the traps.
Players will no longer find themselves in unexpected locations when using the passageways to exit the maze.
If you would find a piece of Rogue equipment, you will now instead find aRogue's equipment crateallowing you to choose which piece you wish to get.
Some messages on Rogues' Den reward traps are now filtered.
The Rogues' Den wall safes have been added to the Thieving skill guide.
Emerald Benedictwill no longer disappear under certain conditions.
