[Page: Trouble Brewing]

Trouble Brewingis aminigamethat takes place on the east side of the pirate island ofMos Le'Harmless. The main goal of the game is to make as much rum as you can as fast as possible. To do this, there are a number of tasks that must be done, from gathering ingredients to taking care of the boilers. A special interface helps determine what needs to be done, but to function effectively, it's helpful to discuss with team members what tasks each will do beforehand.
To play the game, you must have completed theCabin Feverquest and have at least 40Cooking. It is also recommended to bringweight-reducing clothing,m'speak amulet(No benefit afterMonkey Madness II) and a good woodcuttingaxe(though abronze axecan be obtained inside the minigame).
Completing a game of Trouble Brewing is a medium task for theMorytania achievement diary. You do not need to win the game or gain anypieces of eightto complete the task.
The followingofficial worldis assigned to Trouble Brewing:
To join either team, you cannot have any followers, items in your inventory, or anything equipped in the head slot. Items can be deposited at the bank chest nearHonest Jimmy. The official Trouble Brewing world is world 304.
With all necessary items banked, you now need to talk to someone to enter a waiting room. There are three options:San Fanwill sign you to the blue team,Fancy Danwill sign you to the red team, andHonest Jimmywill sign you to whichever team currently has fewest members. Only one player on each team is required to start a game. Each game is 20 minutes long with an interval of 3 minutes between games.
The method of joining a game partway through is different for each waiting room:
If a game is joined at precisely the 10 minute mark (via either waiting room) the player will receive onlyhalfthe normalpieces of eightat the end of the game. Therefore, if wishing to join a game partway and receive full pieces of eight you should enter the red team's waiting room and select the dialogue prompt, but not at the 10 minute mark.
The interface has several different icons on it. Along the top is amounts of ingredients. The number will be green if there is enough for another batch of rum. The icons are as follows, from left to right:
The first three are the threeboilers. They must each have at least3 logsin them and must be lit to keep rum production going, and can fit 10 maximum.
Production status. When this is flashing green, there is a finished bottle of rum that must be placed in the crate before the arrival of the next bottle pushes it off and breaks it. If the indicator turns red and stays red, the current bottle of rum will be destroyed by the next bottle of rum should it not be packaged quickly. The next bottle will come shortly if a bottle of rum is in production.
The left side has the repair status of your team's equipment. If this shows a number, it means that something has been sabotaged by the other team. From top to bottom, these show the status of thehoppers, the pipes between boilers, and thebridgesbetween islands.
In the lower right of the screen is the scoreboard and time left in a match. Each bottle of rum is worth one point.
Theground floor[UK]1stfloor[US]has the three boilers (where you put logs) and the pipes that can be sabotaged. Theworkbenchnearby supplies you with any tools you might need to play the game, and thelarger workbenchnext to it can be used to craft repair parts in case you run out. There is also the log store which starts off with 75 logs in it and can be added to, and next to it is akettlethat coloured flowers are put in to make bowls of coloured water. Just outside is apumpfor water and a patch of coloured flowers of the other team.
On the top floor are thehoppers. This is where all the ingredients are placed. In the image below, they are, labelled with the ingredient.
Producing coloured water is perhaps the most important task, as coloured water is necessary for both rum production and gathering bitternuts. To gather coloured water, the player must run all the way to the other team's base. A patch of the flowers grows just outside it. Flowers can be picked until the player has five in their inventory. A player can hold more than five flowers in their inventory by trading with teammates. Once the flowers have been gathered, they must be placed in thekettlelocated in the player's base.
After there are flowers in the kettle, you can use abowlto get the coloured water back out. Put it in thehopperupstairs or use it for gathering bitternuts (see below).
There are threeboilerson theground floor[UK]1stfloor[US]of your base. To light them, you must place one log in it, then use atinderboxto light it. Once started, more wood can be added. There must be three logs in it to make rum, with a maximum of ten. Unlike the ingredients, the supply of wood in the boilers will continue to decline even when rum isn't being produced.Signsin front of the boilers identify what number it is.
The simplest job. To get water, simply go to the pump outside your base and fill yourbuckets, then take it upstairs and place it in the correspondinghopper. If the pump has been destroyed, you must either fix it or go to the pond on the middle island, but this one won't automatically fill all your buckets.
For those who just wantpieces of eight, this is a fast and effective way of getting a lot of them, but it's also a very common task, so it will often have been done already and won't do much good for the team.
A rarely needed task since the supply of logs in the store is sufficient to begin with, but should the supply dwindle due to sabotage and griefers, you can cut many of the jungle trees down and resupply thelog store.
Around the area aremoundsof dirt that sweetgrubs live in. To lure them out, you have to use raw meat on the mound. You can get an unlimited supply from the table in your base. If you succeed, you'll get some sweetgrubs.
When attempting to draw out some sweetgrubs from a mound, there is a 1/5 chance that the mound will empty out and collapse.[1]Players will have to find another mound or wait for it to fill again.
If the mound does not collapse after the player uses their meat on it, there is a further 1/5 chance that a swarm ofsweetflieswill be drawn out instead. The sweetflies will continue to attack the player until they run away, as they cannot be attacked in retaliation. No one can gather more sweetgrubs from the mound while there are still sweetflies present.
There are a number ofscrapey treesaround the area that can be cut down. They usually yield several logs before being felled. Once the logs are in your inventory, you must use aknifeto cut the bark off, at which point you can put it in the correspondinghopper.
There is a low (1/50)[2]chance while removing the bark from the scrapey logs that you will becomediseasedfor 4 disease damage.
The most complicated task. In order to gather Bitternuts, you must first get a few bowls of coloured water. Then, go to one of the islands and catch amonkey. Dye the monkey with the water to mark it as being on your team, then use it on theBitternut tree. The monkey will skitter up the tree and, after a little while, will toss you a nut. If another monkey is in the tree already, they will first fight and the winning monkey will get the nut. You will only be able to carry 2 Bitternuts in your inventory and attempting to gather more will cause you to waste your coloured monkey. Attempting to drop a Bitternut, gather a 3rd Bitternut, and picking up the dropped Bitternut will result in a message not allowing you to pick it up.
If you wear amonkeyspeak amulet(not required after completingMonkey Madness II), you can alter the strategy used. You can choose to either make the monkey angry by taunting it, or caution him. By making him angry, he'll be more inclined to get up the tree as fast as possible and start pelting you with bitternuts, speeding up the time before you get a nut. If you tell him to be careful, he'll take a little bit longer, but will be more aware of other monkeys and will be more likely to win in a confrontation.
Sabotage will destroy the other team's facilities to make rum. While this will create a nuisance for the opposing team, it is an intended game mechanic. If you decide to sabotage the other team, you need a torch and atinderbox. You can only carry one torch at a time.
With a lit torch, you can go to the other team's base and set things on fire. To do so, use the torch on what you want to sabotage. You'll either succeed, which results in 50 Firemaking experience, or fail. Regardless of outcome, the torch has a 1/3 chance to be "burned up" and removed from your inventory.[3]Although it is possible for players to hold multiple torches in their inventory at the same time by trading with other players, this does not make it easier to sabotage. When a torch burns up, all other torches (whether lit or not) in the player's inventory will be removed along with it.
Only objects on the other team can be sabotaged. Similarly, only objects on your own team's side can be extinguished or repaired. The objects you can burn are:
The chance to successfully burn an object scales with your Firemaking level[4]:
Defence is truly important, as if your equipment is burned, you can't get anything done. If something is set on fire, the first thing you need to do is put it out using a bucket of water. If not, it will eventually burn itself out, but you'll need more supplies to fix it afterwards. Once the fire is out, you can use the appropriate repair item to fix it. Pipes and pumps need bamboo pipes. Hoppers take lumber patches. Bridges take bridge sections. Depending on how long they were allowed to burn, it takes anywhere from 1 to 3 items to fix the problem.
You can also use the pump near theboilerson theground floor[UK]1stfloor[US]to gather pressure in the boilers. To do this, you must have over 50% run energy, and takes 10% each pump. It can hold up to 10 pumps worth of pressure. The reason to do this is defensive. When someone is trying to sabotage your boilers, you can right click the pump and select the vent option. By doing this, a burst of steam will run through the pipes and deal damage depending on how much pressure is in the boilers (dealing 10 damage at full pressure). This will put out any fires currently burning and cause damage to opposing team members standing near a damaged section of pipe. If they die, they will return to their base with no loss of items. There's a negative side effect to this method, though. While it does put the fires out, it will damage the broken pipes further, taking as many bamboo pipes as if you'd let the fire run its course.
Another defensive course is to resupply the repair items. You can do this by taking logs and using them on the workbench in your base. You can either use them yourself or use them on the table to resupply it.
When everything has been completed, a bottle of 'Rum' will roll out the end of the line. This must be collected and placed in the crate, or it will be broken when the next bottle arrives.  In order to collect the 'Rum', though, you must have contributed ingredients towards its production. For example, eachBitternutcontributed will allow the player to collect one rum, and each 5buckets of watercontributed will allow the player to collect one rum. However, unlike other ingredients, up to 10 buckets of water may be deducted from the contribution count. For example, depositing 25 buckets of water at the start of the game will allow you to be eligible to collect the next three bottles of rum, with the first two bottles deducting 10 water from the tally, and the last bottle deducting 5.
The time it takes in between packing the rum and the next one to start is about 20 seconds, taking 40 seconds per rum with all the necessary ingredients. Depositing any resource after a bottle arrives will immediately start production on the next bottle, skipping the cooldown. Players who haven't contributed enough won't be able to see or collect it. Once the bottle has been placed in the crate, your team will get 1 point. A theoretical maximum of 30 rum can be brewed in a single round, however due to the time required to gather the ingredients and start the boilers, the realistic maximum is 29 rum.
Different actions performed during the game reward players with different types of experience rewards, as well as rewarding contribution points during the game. After each game, 10pieces of eightare awarded per bottle of rum produced by the team, regardless of the contribution by the player. On top of that, up to 100 pieces of eight are awarded, based on the contribution points gained during the game. For players contributing ingredients other thanbuckets of water, there is also an experience reward of 100Craftingexperience, 250Cookingexperience, and 150Firemakingexperience, rewarded to the players who contributed at least one ingredient to the brewing process (3bowls of redorblue water, or 1 of any other non-water ingredient).
Each resource you deposit into ahoppercounts for 1 piece of eight at the end of a game. The maximum amount of pieces of eight you can receive from a single game through gathering resources is 100. Resources applies to all the things you can deposit into the hoppers, including buckets of water which are the fastest resource to deposit and take around 3–4 minutes to reach the maximum point count per game.
If you automatically joined at the half-way point in the game, any pieces of eight you earned will be halved (rounded down). The experience awarded at the end of the game is not changed when this happens, though.
The table below shows the immediate experience reward granted for performing certain actions in the game, along with the contribution points towards the pieces of eight and towards the experience reward at the end of the game.
You can also talk toHonest Jimmyto use yourpieces of eightand get some unique items such as naval clothing, pirate banners,the stuff(which increases the chance of getting a mature ale from personalbrewing), andrum(acts as a consumable teleport to the Trouble Brewing area).
Pieces of eight were restored back to 10 per bottle of rum while also hotfixing behaviour leading to excessive rum production.
The amount of pieces of eight awarded per bottle of rum produced was temporarily increased from 2 to 10 and reverted shortly thereafter.
Visiting the Trouble Brewing minigame no longer wipes the effect ofthe stufffrom anyfermenting vats.
When pouring buckets of water into the hopper in Trouble Brewing, your character will now use all your buckets one by one without you needing to click repeatedly.
A Bank chest has been added to the lobby area of Trouble Brewing.
The Trouble Brewing overlay can no longer be removed by lighting a torch.
It is no longer possible to smuggle the team hats from Trouble Brewing.
In order to make it a touch easier to get into a game of Trouble Brewing minigame has been changed to only require 1 player on each crew.
Trouble brewing crew counts now update correctly when you die in the lobby.
