[Page: Underwater]

Underwateris a location just off the northern coast ofFossil Island. In order to enter the underwater area, a player must first travel to a small island via rowboat by choosing the option row out to sea, located at the northern tip of the island (transportation icon). On this smaller island, a player can then selectDiveon the rowboat to enter the underwater section. They will also find abankon this island, which can be used to quickly grab required items. After a player has travelled here once, a new option is unlocked when using theMuseum Camprowboat, allowing quick travel to this island.
While thefishbowl helmetanddiving apparatusare not required to dive, it is heavily suggested that players bring them in order to extend their visit.Flipperscan also be worn in order to "run" underwater and swim faster, though the player is limited byweighingno more than 27kg to do so.Weaponscanbe wielded underwater; however, they prevent players from being able to swim. Shield-slot items such as defenders cannot be wielded whatsoever. Attempting to access the deeper areas with a weapon equipped or while weighing 28kg and above will cause the player to drown.
The underwater areacannotbe accessed inPvP worldsor the permanentDeadmanworld.
When underwater, an oxygen meter will be displayed, reflecting the player's supply of oxygen. This bar begins at 100%. As long as both thefishbowl helmetanddiving apparatusare equipped, the bar will remain at 100%. If not, the player's oxygen will go down by 1% every 3ticks(1.8s). At 10% oxygen, the player's screen will begin flashing red, indicating that they will soon run out of air and drown.
Drowning occurs when a player's oxygen levels drop to 0%. It doesn't cause any harm to the player, but a random amount ofmermaid tearsbetween 10 and 20 will be lost if they had any in their inventory. Any tears in the player's bank will be left untouched, and all other items are kept. After the player's character drowns, they will return to the small island.
To restore oxygen, players can either enter air bubbles, which prevent them from losing oxygen and increase their oxygen by 5% every few seconds, or catchpufferfish, which can be held onto and used to instantly restore oxygen by 15%.
This fishing activity requires at least 47Fishingand44Hunterto begin. To be allowed access to the activity, players must first speak withCeto, located just north of the anchor rope. 200numulitesare required as payment to enter the instanced area and allowance lasts for a full day. Players can also pay a fee of 20,000 numulites to gain permanent access.
This method of fishing and hunting makes use ofdrift nets, which can be crafted by using twojute fibreon aloomat level 26Crafting. These drift nets can then be strung up underwater to catch fish.Annette, located in the area, will store up to 2,000 drift nets for the player.
Players must then chase the fish shoals into the drift nets in order to catch them. Eachfish shoalfills the net up by 10% and gives Hunter and Fishing experience based on a player's current levels. Players with amerfolk tridentequipped will find it easier to scare fish shoals into their drift nets. A (uncharged)trident of the seascan be used as well.
Upon harvesting a fully stocked net, the drift net will be destroyed, leaving just the catch behind. Players can either take the resulting fish and items into their inventory or pay 5 numulites to bank all the fish and items from the net.Sardines,anchovies,lobster,tuna,swordfish,sharks,pufferfish,oysters,clue bottles, fossils, and numulites are all possible rewards from the net.Sea turtlesandmanta rayscan also be obtained if players have the Fishing level to catch them (80 for sea turtles and 90 for manta rays). All fish have approximately the same chance of being caught, while numulites, fossils, and clues are much more rare.
Located just south of the anchor-rope, twoseaweed patchescan be used by players with at least 23Farming.Seaweed sporesare required for usage of thefarming patch. A nearby mermaid,Mernia, requires 200numulitesto watch over each patch.
Planting gives 19 Farming experience and harvesting yields 21 experience for eachgiant seaweedpicked. A minimum of three can be collected per patch, with the average being around 20–40 depending on one's Farming level. Seaweed takes approximately 40 minutes to grow.
The entire eastern area is an elaborateAgilityandThievingtraining arena. To enter, the player must first remove theirfishbowl helmetby the request ofMairin, a mermaid which guards the area. There is a pile of fishbowls, which a player can use to store their helmet temporarily as they traverse the area. Without a helmet, players must rely onpufferfishand air bubbles to keep their oxygen levels up. Another method is going back to the fishbowl pile and equipping the helmet (for 1game tick), immediately refilling the oxygen bar.
After entering, players will find a scattered layout of treasure chests and giant clam shells as well as several tunnels, holes and other obstacles, such as currents, which can be traversed. A flashing arrow on the player's screen andminimapindicates which chest or clam currently contains a reward. It should be noted that chests and clams can be looted multiple times after discovering the correct location.
There is a 1/8.5 chance that searching a chest or clam more than once will be successful. On a successful search, amermaid's tearandglistening tearwill always be rewarded, as well as a chance of receiving 20-30numulitesorunidentified fossilsvarying from small to rare (fossils are obtained this way roughly 1 in every 20 mermaid tears). A player could expect to obtain roughly 170-230mermaid's tearsandglistening tearsper hour, as well as 5-10unidentified fossilsof any kind.
Mermaid tearsare a form a currency, which can be used only inMairin's Market.Unidentified small,mediumandlarge fossils, themerfolk trident,seaweed sporesandbowls of fishcan all be purchased here.
Theglistening tearscan be traded to Mairin in exchange for experience inAgilityand/orThieving, scaled by the player's level and which of the skills are chosen. When choosing both, at level 99, the estimated experience per hour is 42,000 Agility and 151,300 Thieving experience per hour. More information on the experience rates provided by glistening tears can be seen on their article.
Level 68lobstrositiescan be found in the south-eastern area of the domain. These can only be attacked using atrident of the seas, atrident of the swamp(Magic), amerfolk trident, adragon harpoon,magic secateurs, or abrine sabre(Melee). While players are not allowed to use theirfishbowl helmetshere, there are several air bubbles, which will help keep their oxygen levels up.
Lobstrosities are favoured for their manyseedandherbdrops, though due to the restrictions on weight and weaponry in the area it may be inefficient for players with lower combat stats.
Seaweed sporeswill spawn around the area randomly.
Only 6random eventscan occur underwater:
