Clue scroll (medium)
"A set of instructions to be followed"
"A clue!"
"A piece of the world map,but where?"
"Perhaps someone at the observatory can teach me to navigate?"
"It points to great treasure!"
"A clue suggested by Tach!"
"A clue suggested by epic niceXD!"
"A clue suggested by 1LetterShor!"
"A clue suggested by Afropunk!"
"A clue suggested by Versierd!"
"A clue written by My Saviour!"
A clue scroll (medium) is a valuable random drop from a large variety of mid-levelled monsters. Clue scrolls are the start of a Treasure Trail - a treasure hunt that sends players hunting all around Gielinor . At the end of the hunt players receive a reward of items randomly selected from a specific list, possibly including very rare and very valuable items. For a guide on how to complete a clue scroll, see: Treasure Trails Guide . Medium clue scrolls are mostly easy to obtain and complete, and offer average rewards in return. The rewards can range from mithril armour to ranger boots .
Medium clue scrolls offer coordinate clues along with more complex puzzles than easy clues, and occasionally a monster ranging from a chicken to a Market Guard may be fought. However, there are no clue steps that bring you to the Wilderness .
They can take between 3 and 5 steps to complete.
Completion of medium clues will give a casket (medium) containing the final reward for the trail. After completing 400 medium clues, the player will be awarded a clueless scroll .
As for all tiers of clue scrolls, only one medium clue scroll can be held, kept in death's office or stored in a bank at one time.
If a player dies in the Wilderness with a clue scroll above level 20, it will disappear whether it's a PvP death or not, unless it is an item kept on death, or if that player has a clue box . Players will find that the clue scroll will be gone upon returning to their loot otherwise. In lower level Wilderness, unprotected clue scrolls will stay on the ground for an hour if killed by another player, or remain in the inventory if killed by a monster.
A one-time medium clue scroll can be rarely obtained (1/256 chance ) from feeding a monkey bananas . When this happens, a message appears in the player's chat box saying "The monkey chews on the banana and spits out a clue!".
Completion of Medium Combat Achievements gives a 5% increased chance to receive a medium clue scroll from all sources, excluding implings.
A medium clue scroll can be given to Watson along with an easy, hard and elite clue scrolls in order to receive a master clue scroll .
Contents
1 Types of clues
2 Requirements 2.1 Skill requirements 2.2 Additional requirements for ironmen 2.3 Quest requirements 2.4 Music requirements 2.5 Item requirements
2.1 Skill requirements
2.2 Additional requirements for ironmen
2.3 Quest requirements
2.4 Music requirements
2.5 Item requirements
3 Possible rewards
4 Item sources 4.1 Shop locations
4.1 Shop locations
5 Changes 5.1 Gallery (historical)
5.1 Gallery (historical)
6 Trivia
7 References
Types of clues [ edit | edit source ]
Please note that it is possible to receive the same clue more than once.
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Cryptic clues
Emote clues
Coordinates
Maps
Cipher
Music
Requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Skill requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Certain clues will require items that need a certain skill requirement in order to wear, wield or access. The table below shows the highest skill requirement, in order to complete every medium clue. Quest skill requirements are not noted in this table.
Additional requirements for ironmen [ edit | edit source ]
Players playing in the ironman mode may find it more difficult to obtain certain items required for emote clues. Possible challenges are listed below.
Note, that a clue step requiring adamant boots is blocked for ironmen.
Quest requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Some clues require access to areas which may require quests. Some only require to start the quest in order to access the area.
Music requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Item requirements [ edit | edit source ]
'Minimum level requirements' indicates the level required to equip all items on the list in order to complete their respective clue steps.
Any quantities below indicate how many of each item is required to fill all available medium STASH units.
^ Not required for Ironman Mode players.
Possible rewards [ edit | edit source ]
The average loot roll of a medium clue is worth 41,796.00 . If ranger boots are excluded, the expected value of each loot roll is worth 11,594.00 .
On average, medium clues are worth 167,185.00 , or 46,377.00 when the ranger boots are excluded.
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards shown below, players may also receive a variety of other items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (medium) .
Item sources [ edit | edit source ]
Shop locations [ edit | edit source ]
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
Clue Scrolls dropped by a player now last one hour on the ground rather than two minutes. This does not change existing behaviour for Clue Scrolls dropped by NPCs or other entities. Additionally, you are now told if you would have gotten a clue but didn't because you already have one.
The item was graphically updated.
The medium clue answer regarding the number of gravestones in Lumbridge now includes the Jarvis gravestone for those who let him die during the Halloween event.
The item's value was increased from 1 to 20.
Medium clue scrolls have been added to earth, essence, and eclectic impling drop tables.
Increased the zone check for an emote clue at the Observatory.
All clue scrolls now have a right-click 'Check steps' option that will allow you to see exactly how many steps you have completed so far.
You will now be able to have up to one clue scroll of each tier and will be able to complete clue scrolls of different tiers simultaneously.
Clue scroll stages no longer increase when bouncing different clue scrolls.
The drop rate of medium clue scrolls from guards in Falador is now increased by 20% if you have completed the Falador Medium Diary .
The item was renamed from "Clue scroll" to "Clue scroll (medium)".
A medium level clue which sent you into the Wilderness was changed to send you elsewhere.
Gallery (historical) [ edit | edit source ]
Trivia [ edit | edit source ]
After the update of 18 June 2015 it is now possible to have one clue scroll of each tier at a time, while previously the player could not get any clue scroll at all until completing or dropping the current one in order to receive a new one of the same difficulty.
References [ edit | edit source ]
^ Jagex. Mod Ash's Twitter account . 17 April 2018.  Archived from the original on 23 March 2019. Mod Ash: "The chance is 1/256, btw."
^ Jagex. Mod Ash's Twitter account . 25 April 2019.  Archived from the original on 30 May 2020. Mod Ash: "Interestingly, yes, that one is blocked for Iron players. The code does not say why."
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Explore
Large spade
Clueless scroll
Uri transform
Heavy casket
Scroll sack
All clue scrolls
Beginner clue scrolls
Easy clue scrolls
Medium clue scrolls
Hard clue scrolls
Elite clue scrolls
Master clue scrolls
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Ciphers
Coordinates
Cryptics
Emote clues
Hot/Cold
Light boxes
Maps
Puzzle boxes
Arthur the Clue Hunter
Cecilia
Charlie the Tramp
Falo the Bard
Jorral
Reldo
Sherlock
Strange casket
Uri
Watson
Ancient Wizard
Armadylean guard
Bandosian guard
Brassican Mage
Double agent
The Mimic
Third Age Mage
Third Age Ranger
Third Age Warrior
Saradomin wizard
Zamorak wizard
Emote items
Rewards
STASH
Noticeboard (Watson's house)
S.t.a.s.h chart
World map
Items
Untradeable items
Members' items
Items appearing in drop table
Items dropped by monster
Treasure Trails
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
13m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
13m ago - Hewatt
28m ago - Hewatt
54m ago - WMC
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Dragonwilds Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 7 November 2024, at 08:22.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view