Clue scroll (elite)
A clue scroll (elite) is the second highest tier of Treasure Trail . It can be between 5 and 7 steps long, and rewards an elite reward casket upon completion.
As for all tiers of clue scrolls, only one elite clue scroll can be held, kept in death's office or stored in a bank at one time.
After completing 200 elite clues, the player will be awarded a heavy casket . Elite clue scrolls are a random drop from a large variety of high-levelled monsters, implings , raids rewards, and skilling clues such as clue nests , clue bottles , and clue geodes .
Clue scrolls are the start of a treasure trail — a treasure hunt that sends players hunting all around Gielinor and other realms . At the end of the hunt, players receive a reward of items randomly selected from a specific list, with the possibility of receiving rare and valuable items. Elite clue scrolls are usually long and complex, and take significant effort to be completed — though not more so than their master-tier counterparts. These clue scrolls have a greater list of requirements with respect to quests and item possession (for ironmen ). For this reason, many players prefer to complete easy, medium, or hard clues, instead. Venturing into the Wilderness may be required in order to complete the steps, whilst coordinate clues will require the player to fight an Armadylean guard or a Bandosian guard .
Unless the clue scroll is an item kept on death or it is protected by a clue box , dying beyond level 20 Wilderness will cause the clue scroll to be destroyed, regardless of the cause of death. Players may find it beneficial to carry a Wilderness sword to cut webs , royal seed pod / teleport crystal and/or an explorer's ring , as clue scrolls are always kept above these items; these will be lost upon death, but replacements are easily and freely obtainable. In the typical case of death, the unprotected clue will stay on the ground for up to 1 hour, including PvP deaths below level 20 Wilderness; the same rules apply for reward caskets. The only exception is in the case of death to a monster in the Wilderness below level 20, the clue will always be protected.
Completion of Elite Combat Achievements gives a 5% increased chance to receive an elite clue scroll from all sources, excluding implings.
An elite clue scroll can be given to Watson along with an easy, medium, and hard clue scroll to receive a master clue scroll .
Contents
1 Types of clues
2 Requirements 2.1 Skill requirements 2.2 Quest requirements 2.3 Music requirements 2.4 Item requirements
2.1 Skill requirements
2.2 Quest requirements
2.3 Music requirements
2.4 Item requirements
3 Possible rewards
4 Item sources
5 Changes 5.1 Gallery (historical)
5.1 Gallery (historical)
6 Trivia
7 References
Types of clues [ edit | edit source ]
Note that it is possible to receive the same clue more than once.
Anagrams
Sherlock
Challenge scrolls
Puzzle box
Coordinates
Cryptic clues
Emote clues
Maps
Requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Skill requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Some clues will require items that have a certain skill requirement in order to wear, wield or access. The table below shows the highest skill requirement, in order to complete every elite clue. Quest skill requirements are not noted in this table. Sherlock may also give you skill challenges which require certain skill levels to complete. Temporary skill boosts can be used for most non-combat skill challenges.
Quest requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Some clues require access to areas or NPCs which may require quests. Some only require to start the quest in order to gain access.
Music requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Item requirements [ edit | edit source ]
'Minimum level requirements' indicates the level required to equip all items on the list in order to complete their respective clue steps.
Any quantities below indicate how many of each item is required to fill all available elite STASH units.
^ The Dragon boots (g) and Primordial boots can also be stored and used for this clue step.
Possible rewards [ edit | edit source ]
The average loot roll is worth 83,205.00 . On average, elite clues are worth 416,025.00 .
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards shown below, players may also receive a variety of other items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (elite) .
Item sources [ edit | edit source ]
The below rates have rarities provided by Jagex.
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
Clue Scrolls dropped by a player now last one hour on the ground rather than two minutes. This does not change existing behaviour for Clue Scrolls dropped by NPCs or other entities. Additionally, you are now told if you would have gotten a clue but didn't because you already have one.
Two new elite Treasure Trail steps were added.
The item was graphically updated.
Possible amount of steps changed from 9-12 to 5-7.
The item's value was increased from 1 to 20.
Elite clue scrolls have been added to dragon impling drop tables.
Typo fixed on an elite clue scroll.
All clue scrolls now have a right-click 'Check steps' option that will allow you to see exactly how many steps you have completed so far.
You will now be able to have up to one clue scroll of each tier and will be able to complete clue scrolls of different tiers simultaneously.
Clue scroll stages no longer increase when bouncing different clue scrolls.
Crafting anything with leather no longer completes an elite skill challenge.
The spelling of 'Lathas' in an elite clue challenge has now been fixed.
Fixed a typo on an elite clue scroll.
Gallery (historical) [ edit | edit source ]
Trivia [ edit | edit source ]
After the update of 18 June 2015 it is now possible to have one clue scroll of each tier at a time, while previously the player could not get any clue scroll at all until completing or dropping the current one.
Upon release, elite treasure trails were 9-12 steps long. Due to complaints about the substantial jump in the number of steps required, it was changed to 5-7 steps in an update on 13 July 2017 .
The cryptic clue " Green is the colour of my death as the winter-guise, I swoop towards the ground. " is part of the lyrics to the song December Flower by In Flames .
References [ edit | edit source ]
^ Jagex. Mod Tide's Twitter account . 24 May 2019.  Archived from the original on 24 May 2019. Mod Tide: "I know its been a while since the clue expansion but here is the information on clue scroll drop rates and loot chances! If anything changes I will keep you posted."
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Explore
Large spade
Clueless scroll
Uri transform
Heavy casket
Scroll sack
All clue scrolls
Beginner clue scrolls
Easy clue scrolls
Medium clue scrolls
Hard clue scrolls
Elite clue scrolls
Master clue scrolls
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Ciphers
Coordinates
Cryptics
Emote clues
Hot/Cold
Light boxes
Maps
Puzzle boxes
Arthur the Clue Hunter
Cecilia
Charlie the Tramp
Falo the Bard
Jorral
Reldo
Sherlock
Strange casket
Uri
Watson
Ancient Wizard
Armadylean guard
Bandosian guard
Brassican Mage
Double agent
The Mimic
Third Age Mage
Third Age Ranger
Third Age Warrior
Saradomin wizard
Zamorak wizard
Emote items
Rewards
STASH
Noticeboard (Watson's house)
S.t.a.s.h chart
World map
Items
Untradeable items
Members' items
Items appearing in drop table
Items dropped by monster
Treasure Trails
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
13m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
13m ago - Hewatt
28m ago - Hewatt
54m ago - WMC
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Dragonwilds Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 31 March 2025, at 10:33.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view