Clue scroll (hard)
• A set of instructions to be followed. Anagram: • A clue! Map: • A place of the world map, but where? • Part of the world map, but where? Coordinates: • Perhaps someone at the observatory can teach me to navigate? Fairy ring: • A clue suggested by (Player's Name)! Cipher:
A clue scroll (hard) is a valuable random drop from a large variety of high-levelled monsters . A hard clue scroll can be 4-6 steps long. Clue scrolls are the start of a Treasure Trail - a treasure hunt that sends players hunting all around Gielinor and other realms .
At the end of the trail, players receive a reward of items randomly selected from a specific list, possibly including very rare and very valuable items. Hard clue scrolls are usually long and complex, and can give the player puzzle boxes to solve. They can also involve trips to the Wilderness , and fights with a Zamorak wizard , a Saradomin wizard , or the double agent . They can offer many valuable rewards in return, including rune , 3rd age and gilded weapons and armour.
These clue scrolls are much harder than easy and medium clue scrolls, due to the risk of being attacked, as well as requiring more quests to be at least partially completed. For this reason many players prefer to complete the easy or medium ones.
As for all tiers of clue scrolls, only one hard clue scroll can be held, kept in death's office or stored in a bank at one time.
If you have dropped the prior clue scroll while having done some of the steps on that, the next clue scroll you receive will NOT have retained the steps of the dropped clue.
If a player dies in the Wilderness with a clue scroll above level 20, it will disappear whether it's a PvP death or not, unless it is an item kept on death, or if that player has a clue box . Players will find that the clue scroll will be gone upon returning to their loot otherwise. Players may find it beneficial to carry a Wilderness Sword (to cut webs), Royal Seed Pod / Teleport Crystal and/or an Explorer's Ring , as clue scrolls are always kept above these items; these however will be lost upon death and duplicates are easily obtainable. In lower Wilderness however (level 20 or lower) in PvP death, the unprotected clue will stay on the ground for up to 1 hour. The same goes for reward caskets. If you die in lower Wilderness due to a monster you will always keep the clue whether protected or not.
Completion of hard clues will give a casket (hard) , containing the final reward for the trail. After completing 300 hard clues, the player will unlock the Uri Transform emote.
Completion of Hard Combat Achievements gives a 5% increased chance to receive a hard clue scroll from all sources, excluding implings.
A hard clue scroll can be given to Watson along with an easy , medium and elite clue scrolls in order to receive a master clue scroll .
Contents
1 Types of clues
2 Requirements 2.1 Skill requirements 2.2 Additional Ironman requirements 2.3 Quest requirements 2.4 Music requirements 2.5 Item requirements
2.1 Skill requirements
2.2 Additional Ironman requirements
2.3 Quest requirements
2.4 Music requirements
2.5 Item requirements
3 Possible rewards
4 Item sources
5 Changes 5.1 Gallery (historical)
5.1 Gallery (historical)
6 Trivia
7 References
Types of clues [ edit | edit source ]
Please note that it is possible to receive the same clue more than once.
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Puzzle box
Coordinates
Cryptic clues
Emote clues
Maps
Ciphers
Music
Requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Skill requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Certain clues will require items that need a certain skill requirement in order to wear, wield or access. The table below shows the highest skill requirement, in order to complete every hard clue. Quest skill requirements are not noted in this table.
Additional Ironman requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Players playing the ironman mode need to meet some more skill requirements to be able to solve all the clues, with the amulet of glory being the only exception: it is possible to receive an amulet of glory (t) from hard clues .
Quest requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Some clues require access to areas or NPCs which may require quests. Some only require to start the quest in order to access the area or NPC.
Music requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Item requirements [ edit | edit source ]
'Minimum level requirements' indicates the level required to equip all items on the list in order to complete their respective clue steps.
Any quantities below indicate how many of each item is required to fill all available hard STASH units.
Possible rewards [ edit | edit source ]
The average loot roll is worth 34,507.00 . On average, hard clues are worth 172,535.00 . The 1/15 chance of receiving a master clue scroll adds another 58,500.00 , for a total expected value per clue of 231,035.00 .
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards shown below, players may also receive a variety of other items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (hard) .
Item sources [ edit | edit source ]
The below rates have rarities provided by Jagex.
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
The item was graphically updated.
The item's value was increased from 1 to 20.
Hard clue scrolls have been added to nature, magpie, and ninja impling drop tables.
Hard clue scrolls are now dropped by black demons.
A typo in the hard emote clue telling you to laugh in Jokul's tent has been fixed.
All clue scrolls now have a right-click 'Check steps' option that will allow you to see exactly how many steps you have completed so far.
You will now be able to have up to one clue scroll of each tier and will be able to complete clue scrolls of different tiers simultaneously.
Clue scroll stages no longer increase when bouncing different clue scrolls.
A hard level coordinate clue where the wrong type of wizard was spawning has now been fixed.
Bloodveld and Dark beasts now have a chance of dropping hard clue scrolls.
The item was renamed from "Clue scroll" to "Clue scroll (hard)".
Gallery (historical) [ edit | edit source ]
Trivia [ edit | edit source ]
After the update of 18 June 2015 it is now possible to have one clue scroll of each tier at a time, while previously the player could not get any clue scroll at all until completing or dropping their current one.
References [ edit | edit source ]
^ Jagex. Mod Tide's Twitter account . 24 May 2019.  Archived from the original on 24 May 2019. Mod Tide: "I know its been a while since the clue expansion but here is the information on clue scroll drop rates and loot chances! If anything changes I will keep you posted."
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Explore
Large spade
Clueless scroll
Uri transform
Heavy casket
Scroll sack
All clue scrolls
Beginner clue scrolls
Easy clue scrolls
Medium clue scrolls
Hard clue scrolls
Elite clue scrolls
Master clue scrolls
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Ciphers
Coordinates
Cryptics
Emote clues
Hot/Cold
Light boxes
Maps
Puzzle boxes
Arthur the Clue Hunter
Cecilia
Charlie the Tramp
Falo the Bard
Jorral
Reldo
Sherlock
Strange casket
Uri
Watson
Ancient Wizard
Armadylean guard
Bandosian guard
Brassican Mage
Double agent
The Mimic
Third Age Mage
Third Age Ranger
Third Age Warrior
Saradomin wizard
Zamorak wizard
Emote items
Rewards
STASH
Noticeboard (Watson's house)
S.t.a.s.h chart
World map
Items
Untradeable items
Members' items
Items appearing in drop table
Items dropped by monster
Treasure Trails
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
13m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
13m ago - Hewatt
28m ago - Hewatt
54m ago - WMC
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Dragonwilds Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 26 March 2025, at 15:53.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view