Clue scroll (easy)
A set of instructions to be followed.
A clue!
Part of the world map, but where?
It points to great treasure!
A clue scroll (easy) is a valuable random drop from a large variety of lower-levelled monsters. Clue scrolls are the start of a Treasure Trail - a treasure hunt that sends players hunting all around Gielinor . At the end of the hunt players receive a reward of items randomly selected from a specific list, possibly including very rare and very valuable items.
For a guide on how to complete a clue scroll, see Treasure Trails Guide .
As for all tiers of clue scrolls, only one easy clue scroll can be held, kept in death's office or stored in a bank at one time.
Easy clue scrolls are the easiest type of members-only clue to obtain and complete, and offer lower rewards in return. The rewards can range from black equipment to wizard robes (g) . A quick way to get easy clue scrolls is by pickpocketing H.A.M. Members in Lumbridge (note: wearing H.A.M. robes does not increase pickpocket success rate, but does decrease the chance of being kicked out of the hideout on pickpocket failure. ) Another method is killing thugs in Edgeville Wilderness dungeon while wearing a ring of wealth (i) .
Completion of Easy Combat Achievements gives a 5% increased chance to receive an easy clue scroll from all sources, excluding implings.
Easy clue scrolls do not feature any co-ordinate clues, and require nothing to be fought. They also do not take the player into the Wilderness .
This clue scroll may contain the following types of clue:
Emote clues
Cryptic clues
Maps
Music
Completion of easy clues will give another clue or a reward casket (easy) , containing the final reward for the trail. After completing 500 easy clues, the player will be awarded a large spade .
If a player dies in the Wilderness with a clue scroll above level 20, it will disappear whether it's a PvP death or not, unless it is an item kept on death, or if that player has a clue box . Players will find that the clue scroll will be gone upon returning to their loot otherwise. In lower level Wilderness, unprotected clue scrolls will stay on the ground for an hour if killed by another player, or remain in the inventory if killed by a monster.
An easy clue scroll can be given to Watson along with a medium, hard and elite clue scroll in order to receive a master clue scroll . It is also possible to receive a master clue scroll as a reward for completing the easy scroll, at a 1/50 rate.
Easy clue scrolls can be between 2 and 4 steps long.
Contents
1 Entrana method
2 Requirements 2.1 Skill requirements 2.2 Quest requirements 2.3 Music requirements 2.4 Item requirements
2.1 Skill requirements
2.2 Quest requirements
2.3 Music requirements
2.4 Item requirements
3 Possible rewards
4 Item sources
5 Changes 5.1 Gallery (historical)
5.1 Gallery (historical)
6 References
7 Trivia
Entrana method [ edit | edit source ]
If the player opens an easy clue reward casket on Entrana , rolls for armour and weapons will be removed since they are not allowed on the island. This makes receiving god book pages more likely, and is recommended for faster book completion.
Non-shared clue uniques cannot be obtained if opening caskets on Entrana. This may be relevant for ironmen who may wish to obtain Flared trousers (required for a master clue step) and Bob shirts (required for an elite clue step), among others.
Requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Skill requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Certain clues will require items that need a certain skill requirement in order to wear or wield. The table below shows the highest skill requirement, in order to complete every easy clue.
Quest requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Some clues require access to areas which may require quests. Some only require to start the quest in order to access the area.
Music requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Item requirements [ edit | edit source ]
'Minimum level requirements' indicates the level required to equip all items on the list in order to complete their respective clue steps.
Any quantities below indicate how many of each item is required to fill all available easy STASH units.
Possible rewards [ edit | edit source ]
The average loot roll is worth 14,733.00 . On average, easy clues are worth 44,199.00 .
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards, players may also receive a variety of items such as black armour , black weapons , willow shortbows , coifs , leather armour , yew shortbows , salmon , trout and steel pickaxes .
Item sources [ edit | edit source ]
The below rates have rarities provided by Jagex.
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
Clue Scrolls dropped by a player now last one hour on the ground rather than two minutes. This does not change existing behaviour for Clue Scrolls dropped by NPCs or other entities. Additionally, you are now told if you would have gotten a clue but didn't because you already have one.
The item was graphically updated.
The item's value was increased from 1 to 20.
Easy clue scrolls have been added to young, baby, and gourmet impling drop tables.
All clue scrolls now have a right-click 'Check steps' option that will allow you to see exactly how many steps you have completed so far.
You will now be able to have up to one clue scroll of each tier and will be able to complete clue scrolls of different tiers simultaneously.
Clue scroll stages no longer increase when bouncing different clue scrolls.
The easy emote clue in Falador's jewellery shop will now spawn Uri correctly instead of underneath the player.
The item was renamed from "Clue scroll" to "Clue scroll (easy)".
Gallery (historical) [ edit | edit source ]
References [ edit | edit source ]
^ Jagex. Mod Ash's Twitter account . 8 July 2016.  Archived from the original on 26 May 2020. Mod Ash: "HAM kit doesn't reduce getting caught, but each piece makes you slightly less likely to be ejected after being caught."
^ Jagex. Mod Ash's Twitter account . 5 January 2019.  Archived from the original on 26 May 2020. Mod Ash: "It is the case, and I've been recommending people go there for prayerbook pages for years."
^ Jagex. Mod Ash's Twitter account . 23 December 2020.  Archived from the original on 12 January 2021.
^ Jagex. Mod Tide's Twitter account . 24 May 2019.  Archived from the original on 24 May 2019. Mod Tide: "I know its been a while since the clue expansion but here is the information on clue scroll drop rates and loot chances! If anything changes I will keep you posted."
Trivia [ edit | edit source ]
When talking to Uri, if you do not finish his dialogue (by clicking out after he gives you the next step) he will will not despawn right away. If you happen to get the same step again before he does despawn, you will be able to finish the clue step without needing to perform the emote a second time.
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Explore
Large spade
Clueless scroll
Uri transform
Heavy casket
Scroll sack
All clue scrolls
Beginner clue scrolls
Easy clue scrolls
Medium clue scrolls
Hard clue scrolls
Elite clue scrolls
Master clue scrolls
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Ciphers
Coordinates
Cryptics
Emote clues
Hot/Cold
Light boxes
Maps
Puzzle boxes
Arthur the Clue Hunter
Cecilia
Charlie the Tramp
Falo the Bard
Jorral
Reldo
Sherlock
Strange casket
Uri
Watson
Ancient Wizard
Armadylean guard
Bandosian guard
Brassican Mage
Double agent
The Mimic
Third Age Mage
Third Age Ranger
Third Age Warrior
Saradomin wizard
Zamorak wizard
Emote items
Rewards
STASH
Noticeboard (Watson's house)
S.t.a.s.h chart
World map
Items
Untradeable items
Members' items
Items appearing in drop table
Items dropped by monster
Treasure Trails
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
13m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
13m ago - Hewatt
28m ago - Hewatt
54m ago - WMC
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Dragonwilds Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 15 December 2024, at 06:00.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view