Clue scroll (master)
A clue scroll (master) is the highest tier of clue scroll . It can be between 6 and 8 steps long, and rewards a master reward casket upon completion. After completing 100 master clues, the player will be awarded the scroll sack .
Players can obtain a master clue scroll from the following methods:
By bringing one each of the easy , medium , hard , and elite clue scrolls to Watson , who is located in the large, fenced-in house west of the Forthos Ruin in Hosidius . Clue scrolls may be handed in individually. It should be noted that if you have an incomplete master scroll and attempt to obtain a new scroll, Watson will take all lower tier scrolls but NOT give you a master scroll until either you complete the original scroll or discard it.
As a potential reward from completing any easy, medium, hard or elite treasure trails, with the chances of obtaining them being 1/50, 1/30, 1/15, and 1/5 respectively.
Like elite and hard clue scrolls, master clue scrolls also have combat encounters. They include a Brassican Mage , Double agent or three Ancient Wizards (in multi-combat areas). As their tier suggests, master clues require numerous high-levelled items, requirements, and quests in order to complete them.
It should be noted that if a player dies in the Wilderness with a clue scroll in above level 20, it will disappear whether it's a PvP death or not , unless it is an item kept on death, or if that player has a clue box . Players will find that the clue scroll will be gone upon returning to their loot otherwise. However, when dying in the Wilderness with a clue box, the clue will stay in the inventory while the clue box is lost. Players may find it beneficial to carry a Wilderness Sword (to cut webs), Royal Seed Pod / Teleport Crystal , and/or an Explorer's Ring , as clue scrolls are always kept above these items; these however will be lost upon death and duplicates are easily obtainable. In lower Wilderness however (level 20 or lower) in PvP death, the unprotected clue will stay on the ground for up to 1 hour. The same goes for reward caskets. If you die in lower Wilderness due to a monster you will always keep the clue whether protected or not.
Contents
1 Types of clues
2 Requirements 2.1 Skill requirements 2.2 Quest requirements 2.3 Item requirements (Emote clues) 2.4 Item requirements (Falo the Bard) 2.5 Other requirements
2.1 Skill requirements
2.2 Quest requirements
2.3 Item requirements (Emote clues)
2.4 Item requirements (Falo the Bard)
2.5 Other requirements
3 Possible rewards
4 Item sources
5 Changes 5.1 Gallery (historical)
5.1 Gallery (historical)
6 References
Types of clues [ edit | edit source ]
Please note that it is possible to receive the same clue more than once.
Falo the Bard
Sherlock
Anagrams
Coordinates
Puzzle box
Light box
Cryptic clues
Emote clues
Hot & Cold
Requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Skill requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Certain clues will require items that need a certain skill requirement in order to wear, wield or access. The table below shows the highest skill requirement, in order to complete every master clue. Quest skill requirements are not noted in this table. Sherlock may also give you skill challenges which require certain skill levels to complete. Temporary skill boosts can be used for non-combat skill challenges.
Quest requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Some clues require access to areas or NPCs which may require quests. Some only require to start the quest in order to gain access.
Item requirements (Emote clues) [ edit | edit source ]
'Minimum level requirements' indicates the level required to equip all items on the list in order to complete their respective clue steps.
Any quantities below indicate how many of each item is required to fill all available master STASH units.
^ The Abyssal whip (or) , Volcanic abyssal whip , Frozen abyssal whip , Abyssal tentacle and Abyssal tentacle (or) can also be used and stored for this clue step.
^ The Guardian boots can also be used and stored for this clue step.
^ Requires any one complete set
^ The Climbing boots (g) can also be used and stored for this clue step.
^ Variants such as the infernal axe and crystal axe can be used and stored for the emote clue at the Enchanted Valley .
^ Variants such as the infernal pickaxe , dragon pickaxe (upgraded) , and dragon pickaxe (or) can be used and stored for the emote clue at the Soul Altar .
Item requirements (Falo the Bard) [ edit | edit source ]
This is a list of all items that Falo the Bard may ask you to show.
^ The book must be completed. Any book will be accepted.
^ The Bow of faerdhinen (c) and all colour variations can also be used for this clue step.
^ The uncharged version can also be used for this clue step.
^ The Ghommal's avernic defender 5 , Ghommal's avernic defender 6 and Trouver variations can be used for this clue step.
^ A broken anchor does not work .
^ Trimmed , god , and heraldic variants do not work .
Other requirements [ edit | edit source ]
Possible rewards [ edit | edit source ]
The average loot roll is worth 146,250.00 . On average, master clues are worth 877,505.00 .
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards shown below, players may also receive a variety of other items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (master) .
Item sources [ edit | edit source ]
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
A restriction has been removed which prevented players from receiving a master clue for 30 seconds after they last received one.
Clue Scrolls dropped by a player now last one hour on the ground rather than two minutes. This does not change existing behaviour for Clue Scrolls dropped by NPCs or other entities. Additionally, you are now told if you would have gotten a clue but didn't because you already have one.
The item was graphically updated.
The item's value was increased from 1 to 20.
All clue scrolls now have a right-click 'Check steps' option that will allow you to see exactly how many steps you have completed so far.
Gallery (historical) [ edit | edit source ]
References [ edit | edit source ]
^ "Poll 71 and Darkmeyer Updates" . Old School RuneScape News. Jagex.  18 June 2020. Archived from the original .
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Explore
Large spade
Clueless scroll
Uri transform
Heavy casket
Scroll sack
All clue scrolls
Beginner clue scrolls
Easy clue scrolls
Medium clue scrolls
Hard clue scrolls
Elite clue scrolls
Master clue scrolls
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Ciphers
Coordinates
Cryptics
Emote clues
Hot/Cold
Light boxes
Maps
Puzzle boxes
Arthur the Clue Hunter
Cecilia
Charlie the Tramp
Falo the Bard
Jorral
Reldo
Sherlock
Strange casket
Uri
Watson
Ancient Wizard
Armadylean guard
Bandosian guard
Brassican Mage
Double agent
The Mimic
Third Age Mage
Third Age Ranger
Third Age Warrior
Saradomin wizard
Zamorak wizard
Emote items
Rewards
STASH
Noticeboard (Watson's house)
S.t.a.s.h chart
World map
Items
Untradeable items
Members' items
Items appearing in drop table
Treasure Trails
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
13m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
13m ago - Hewatt
28m ago - Hewatt
54m ago - WMC
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Dragonwilds Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 28 February 2025, at 21:58.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view