Treasure Trails/Guide/Cryptic clues
ttgcr
Cryptic clues are common riddle clues that can be found in all tiers of Treasure Trails . These clues demand a fairly wide variety of tasks. The tasks range from speaking to an NPC , searching a designated crate, or directing the player to dig in some fairly obscure location. For higher difficulty Treasure Trails, players may have to complete additional side tasks in order to complete the clue. These side task challenges may include finding a key or completing a puzzle box .
When doing medium Treasure Trails, clues will occasionally lead to a locked chest or drawer, which requires a key to open. Attempting to open the chest or drawer will provide a clue to which specific, usually local, monster to kill. Monsters that drop treasure trail keys drop them only when the player is in possession of that clue. It is worth noting that for clue steps involving keys, it is possible to obtain the key before reading the hint, which could save the player some time.
During hard clue scrolls, players may get shown a fairy ring code followed by some numbers. To solve these, the player must travel to the corresponding fairy ring and then take the number of steps shown by the numbers, in order of the compass direction ( North, East, South, West ), and then dig at that spot.
During hard or master clues, players may receive a puzzle box challenge from an NPC . Players must unscramble the image in order to receive the next clue or the reward.
During master clues, players are given three cryptic clues in one step. Players must go to the destination each cryptic provides and dig at the correct spot, or talk to the correct NPC, to obtain a torn part of the next step. When all three are obtained, they can be combined into either a new clue step, or the reward casket.
Clue juggling can make this process quicker if solving many master clue scrolls.
Contents
1 Beginner Cryptic clues
2 Easy Cryptic clues
3 Medium Cryptic clues
4 Hard Cryptic Clues
5 Elite Cryptic clues
6 Master Cryptic clues
Beginner Cryptic clues [ edit | edit source ]
Lucky for you, A man called Reldo may have a clue.
Players can immediately start the search without speaking to Reldo if they already own a strange device .
Easy Cryptic clues [ edit | edit source ]
Thanks, Cecilia
Medium Cryptic clues [ edit | edit source ]
Search for some crates in one of the houses.
Kill a Rellekka marketplace guard to obtain the key. ( Note: Starting the Horror from the Deep quest and speaking to Gunnjorn to obtain the Lighthouse key is required! Level 35 Agility is required to talk to Gunnjorn. You must also repair the bridge with two wooden planks , a hammer and 60 steel nails .)
Thanks, Cecilia
Kill any chicken to obtain a key. ( Note: The closest chicken is just by the entrance of the Ranging Guild , west of Seers' Village .)
Kill a guard dog at Handelmort Mansion to obtain the key.
Kill any pirate located around Brimhaven to obtain the key.
Answer: 5096
Answer: 6859
Kill a barbarian in Barbarian Village , Barbarian Outpost or the Blue Moon Inn to receive the key.
Kill a monk in Ardougne Monastery to obtain the key.
Hard Cryptic Clues [ edit | edit source ]
Walking from the land of many unimportant things leads to a choice of paths.
Answer: 8
Thanks, Cecilia
And dig by the gate to be my friend.
(He's a long way from home.)
Answer: 13112221
Feel free to quarrel and wind me up and dig while you shoot their heads.
Players with 51 Agility can use the shortcut pipe from Edgeville Dungeon to direct access the clue location; a slash weapon or knife is not required in this case.
Come see the fur which is right near me.
Often found with rod on mushroom.
Try checking the bookcase to find an answer.
Fortunately you do not have to go as far as to stand in a draft.
Search the crate, just west of the Air elementals , inside the Elemental Workshop . Note: A battered key is required to enter to workshop.
Elite Cryptic clues [ edit | edit source ]
Note: Killing Cerberus will count, but hellhounds inside the God Wars Dungeon will not count.
Or faster: from the Slayer ring teleport, east, jump west past mages, get pushed by wall crushers, south, south, west, west, south, search the tile (floor) to deactivate the log trap and jump over, south, south, "go down", but you'll fall right where the toad batta is.
Players need to slide down to where Trollweiss grows on Trollweiss Mountain .
Master Cryptic clues [ edit | edit source ]
Lucky for you, A man called Jorral may have a clue.
For a list of all possible locations, see here .
Paddewwa , Edgeville Dungeon , near the earth warriors .
1 floor 2 floor of the Rogues' Castle in the deep Wilderness .
1 floor 2 floor of the Canifis Slayer Tower , just before the Infernal Mage .
A ring of visibility or a ring of shadows and ghostspeak amulet are required to make progress through the clue.
Players with level 91 Agility can attach a long rope , purchased from the Darkmeyer General Store , to the rock next to the blue hat to instantly climb down the large cliff.
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Explore
Large spade
Clueless scroll
Uri transform
Heavy casket
Scroll sack
All clue scrolls
Beginner clue scrolls
Easy clue scrolls
Medium clue scrolls
Hard clue scrolls
Elite clue scrolls
Master clue scrolls
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Ciphers
Coordinates
Cryptics
Emote clues
Hot/Cold
Light boxes
Maps
Puzzle boxes
Arthur the Clue Hunter
Cecilia
Charlie the Tramp
Falo the Bard
Jorral
Reldo
Sherlock
Strange casket
Uri
Watson
Ancient Wizard
Armadylean guard
Bandosian guard
Brassican Mage
Double agent
The Mimic
Third Age Mage
Third Age Ranger
Third Age Warrior
Saradomin wizard
Zamorak wizard
Emote items
Rewards
STASH
Noticeboard (Watson's house)
S.t.a.s.h chart
World map
Treasure Trails
Guides
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
13m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
13m ago - Hewatt
28m ago - Hewatt
54m ago - WMC
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Dragonwilds Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 29 June 2022, at 03:40.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view