Treasure Trails
Treasure Trails is a Distraction and Diversion which involves solving clue scrolls , rarely dropped items dropped by the majority of monsters in RuneScape . Clue scrolls contain clues and riddles for the player to solve to eventually find a reward casket , which could contain unique rewards. A clue scroll can be obtained randomly from killing monsters, playing minigames, looting implings , fishing , woodcutting , or mining .
There are six different levels of clue scrolls, with the higher level ones being more difficult to complete. Players can own up to one clue scroll of each level at a time. If a player receives a clue scroll drop while already possessing a clue scroll of that tier, the message You have a sneaking suspicion that you would have received a [tier] clue scroll. appears in their chat box. If a player receives two clue scrolls of the same tier as a drop while killing multiple monsters, they can only pick up one; attempting to pick up the second one results in the message You already have a clue scroll of this tier.
While treasure trails as an activity is available to free-to-play players, only the lowest level of clues (beginner) can be found and completed in free-to-play worlds. The other five levels are all exclusive to members' worlds.
It should be noted that if a player dies in the Wilderness with a clue scroll (or reward casket ) in level 20 or higher Wilderness and it is not one of the top 3 kept items (or top 4 with Protect Item prayer) or is not protected by a clue box (in which case the player will lose the box but keep the scroll), the clue scroll will disappear, regardless of whether it's a PvP death or not. In lower Wilderness however (level 20 or lower), in PvP death, an unprotected clue scroll will stay on the ground for up to one hour. Players may find it beneficial to carry a Wilderness sword (to cut webs), Royal Seed Pod / Teleport Crystal and/or an Explorer's ring , as clue scrolls are always kept above these items; these however will be lost upon death and duplicates are easily obtainable.
If players die to a monster outside of the Wilderness they will always keep their clue scroll, whether protected or not, as it is an untradeable item.
Treasure Trails will require players to travel all across Gielinor in order to complete them, so meeting the minimum requirements and having plenty of teleportation on hand will help make them easier to clear.
Contents
1 Difficulty levels
2 Solving the Treasure Trails
3 Antagonists
4 STASH units
5 Rewards 5.1 Universal rewards 5.2 Beginner rewards 5.3 Easy rewards 5.4 Medium rewards 5.5 Hard rewards 5.6 Elite rewards 5.7 Master rewards 5.8 Average rewards value 5.9 Milestone rewards
5.1 Universal rewards
5.2 Beginner rewards
5.3 Easy rewards
5.4 Medium rewards
5.5 Hard rewards
5.6 Elite rewards
5.7 Master rewards
5.8 Average rewards value
5.9 Milestone rewards
6 Ranks
7 Changes
8 References
Difficulty levels [ edit | edit source ]
Clue scrolls have six types of difficulty levels, these are: beginner, easy, medium, hard, elite, and master. More difficult trails provide more valuable rewards.
Only one clue scroll of the same difficulty may be in a player's possession at a time—whether in the player's inventory or in the bank—however it is possible to possess multiple scrolls of different difficulties each. If one of your clue scrolls is still on the ground, it is possible to receive additional scrolls of the same difficulty as drops; if this happens, it is possible to complete both scrolls by leaving one on the ground and switching off between steps. If the player possesses a scroll in the bank or inventory and is rolled as a drop, a message in-game will appear stating You have a sneaking suspicion that you would have received a/an [difficulty] clue scroll.
Some clues will require access to areas which may require quests, will require items that need a certain skill requirement in order to wear, wield or access, or will give a skill challenge that requires a certain level in that skill. The table below links to pages with all requirements. Temporary skill boosts can be used for most non-combat skill challenges.
Solving the Treasure Trails [ edit | edit source ]
See the table below for links to the pages with solutions for each clue.
Antagonists [ edit | edit source ]
In hard and higher-levelled Treasure Trails, some steps will require the player to fight a random enemy based on the Treasure Trail's tier when the correct spot is dug at, as indicated with the list below:
STASH units [ edit | edit source ]
STASH units (short for "Store Things And Stuff Here"), also known as hidey holes, are storage units for emote clue items, saving bank space and bank trips, especially for players who complete many Treasure Trails.
There are 107 STASH units in total found throughout RuneScape . These locations are initially labelled as inconspicuous bushes/crates/holes/rocks, and, once built, become usable STASH units. Players can check which units they've already built/filled by visiting Watson and reading the noticeboard within his house , or by building a S.t.a.s.h chart in a player-owned house .
A Hammer & Saw are required in order to build a STASH unit.
Depending on the scenery the emote clue is located in, STASH may differ in appearance to appear as inconspicuous as possible. For a list of the locations of all STASH units as well as its building materials, visit this page .
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
There are a total of 638 unique rewards from all tiers of clue scrolls. The tier of items and their average value tends to increase with higher tiers of clue scrolls, with exceptions for sought-after items in lower tiers such as the medium tier reward of ranger boots . All tiers except for beginner can reward items from the universal drop table. Starting with the hard tier, rewards may also include items from the mega rare tables, such as gilded equipment or 3rd age equipment .
Universal rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Universal rewards are only available from easy Treasure Trails and above.
Beginner rewards [ edit | edit source ]
As well as unique Treasure Trails rewards, players may also receive a variety of items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (beginner) .
Easy rewards [ edit | edit source ]
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards, players may also receive a variety of items such as black armour , black weapons , willow shortbows , coifs , leather armour , yew shortbows , salmon , trout and steel pickaxes .
Medium rewards [ edit | edit source ]
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards shown below, players may also receive a variety of other items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (medium) .
Hard rewards [ edit | edit source ]
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards shown below, players may also receive a variety of other items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (hard) .
Elite rewards [ edit | edit source ]
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards shown below, players may also receive a variety of other items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (elite) .
Master rewards [ edit | edit source ]
As well as the unique Treasure Trails rewards shown below, players may also receive a variety of other items. A more detailed overview of all possible rewards can be found at reward casket (master) .
Average rewards value [ edit | edit source ]
Opening a Reward casket generates a certain number of rolls on the relevant loot tables. The table below shows the expected gold values per loot roll, and the expected gold values per completed clue taking into account the average number of generated rolls.
Milestone rewards [ edit | edit source ]
There are milestone rewards for each tier of clue scrolls. Each can be obtained by completing a specific amount of clue scrolls of that tier:
Beginner: Explore — 600 scrolls
Easy: Large spade — 500
Medium: Clueless scroll — 400
Hard: Uri transform — 300
Elite: Heavy casket — 200
Master: Scroll sack — 100
If any of the items are lost, they can be re-obtained by completing another clue scroll of its tier.
Ranks [ edit | edit source ]
A player may check the amount of Treasure Trails they have completed by clicking on the Treasure Trail Statistics or by checking the adventure log in their player-owned house . These interfaces also show the player's Treasure Trails rank.
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
The amount of time that a clue scroll remains on the ground after being dropped by the player has been increased from two minutes to one hour.
Players are now informed if they would have received a clue scroll drop but did not because they already have it.
Two new elite Treasure Trail steps were added.
A treasure trails expansion introduces beginner clues, music track clues, the Mimic boss, and new clues and rewards across all clue tiers. Additionally, reward caskets were made stackable and inventory icons for clue tiers have been made distinct.
A treasure trails expansion introduces master clues (including Falo the Bard, Hot/cold clues, master puzzle boxes, and lightbox puzzles). Cipher clues are introduced to medium and hard clues. New rewards are added to all tiers.
Increased the zone check for an emote clue at the Observatory.
All clue scrolls now have a right-click 'Check steps' option that will allow you to see exactly how many steps you have completed so far.
You will now be able to have up to one clue scroll of each tier and will be able to complete clue scrolls of different tiers simultaneously.
You can no longer receive a clue scroll if Priestess Zul-Gwenwynig is protecting one for you.
Lumberyard teleport scrolls are now available as clue scroll rewards.
Clue scrolls and caskets can no longer be picked up on F2P worlds.
You can no longer receive a clue scroll drop if you have a skill challenge scroll. Appended text on various clue scrolls to make them a little clearer. Fixed a few clue scroll typos.
Elite clue drops have been added as a drop from high level monsters.
Patchy is now able to combine some clue scroll rewards.
The toybox in your player-owned house was updated to store new rewards
Some clue scroll rewards have been renamed to be more easily searchable
When you complete a clue scroll the game will now tell you how many of each tier of clue you've completed. This is also shown at the observatory.
Clue scrolls are now universally dropped in addition to other drops rather than instead of them.
References [ edit | edit source ]
^ Jagex. Mod Ash's Twitter account . 9 May 2019.  Archived from the original on 15 July 2019. Mod Ash: "They only give F2P items."
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Beginner
Easy
Medium
Hard
Elite
Master
Explore
Large spade
Clueless scroll
Uri transform
Heavy casket
Scroll sack
All clue scrolls
Beginner clue scrolls
Easy clue scrolls
Medium clue scrolls
Hard clue scrolls
Elite clue scrolls
Master clue scrolls
Anagrams
Challenge scrolls
Ciphers
Coordinates
Cryptics
Emote clues
Hot/Cold
Light boxes
Maps
Puzzle boxes
Arthur the Clue Hunter
Cecilia
Charlie the Tramp
Falo the Bard
Jorral
Reldo
Sherlock
Strange casket
Uri
Watson
Ancient Wizard
Armadylean guard
Bandosian guard
Brassican Mage
Double agent
The Mimic
Third Age Mage
Third Age Ranger
Third Age Warrior
Saradomin wizard
Zamorak wizard
Emote items
Rewards
STASH
Noticeboard (Watson's house)
S.t.a.s.h chart
World map
Barbarian Assault
Fortis Colosseum
Inferno
Mage Arena
Nightmare Zone
Pest Control
Tackle organised crime
Temple Trekking
TzHaar Fight Cave
TzHaar-Ket-Rak's Challenges
Bounty Hunter
Castle Wars
Clan Wars
Emir's Arena
Soul Wars
TzHaar Fight Pit
Last Man Standing
Brimhaven Agility Arena
Fishing Trawler
Forestry
Giants' Foundry
Gnome Ball
Gnome Restaurant
Guardians of the Rift
Hallowed Sepulchre
Impetuous Impulses
Mage Training Arena
Mahogany Homes
Mastering Mixology
Pyramid Plunder
Ranging Guild
Rogues' Den
Sorceress's Garden
Stealing artefacts
The Mess
Tithe Farm
Trouble Brewing
Volcanic Mine
Shades of Mort'ton
Tai Bwo Wannai Cleanup
The Gauntlet
Warriors' Guild
Burthorpe Games Room ( Games Zone )
Rat Pits
Tears of Guthix
Chambers of Xeric
Theatre of Blood
Tombs of Amascut
Champions' Challenge
Shooting Stars
Treasure Trails
Blast mine
Camdozaal Vault
Chompy bird hunting
Creature Creation
Dorgesh-Kaan market trading
Keldagrim tasks
Managing Miscellania
Shayzien Combat Ring
Stealing valuables
Underwater Agility and Thieving
Wise Old Man tasks
Activities
Distractions and Diversions
Treasure Trails
Free-to-play minigames
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
13m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
13m ago - Hewatt
28m ago - Hewatt
54m ago - WMC
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Dragonwilds Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 2 April 2025, at 19:23.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view