[Page: Account]

A player'saccountis their digital profile, which stores information and is represented in-game by theplayer character. Accounts are accessed by unique log-in credentials, with a password and either alogin email or username, depending on when the account was created.
An account holds all the information on the player's in-game activities, including theirskillsand achievements, the items they possess, and thequeststhey have done. It also makes the player responsible for anything they have said via the game's chat interface, as well as any actions that breach Old School RuneScape'sCode of Conduct.
Beyond in-game play, players also need to log into their account to use certain functions on theRuneScapewebsite, including voting in official polls and accessing thePlayer ModeratorCentre (if the player has player moderator status).
Players may receive messages from Jagex via theMessage Centrewhen they log into the game.This is the only means by which Jagex contacts players individually. They will NEVER use email, and any emails claiming to require action for your account should be discarded.
As of 24 January 2010, players are required at sign-up to give Jagex their email address.
An individual person can use several accounts, and theycaninterchange between playing them with no limits. Historically, it used to be forbidden to log into more than one account simultaneously; this was changed in May2014,[1][2]withJagexexplicitly allowing trade and other interaction between alternate accounts, "as long as it doesn't involve rule breaking or gameplay exploitation." One maynot, however, allow anyone else to use any of their accounts at any time.[3]See thealternative accounts sectionbelow for further information.
Jagexalso prohibits the sale of accounts whether by in-game or real currency. The exchanging ofOld School RuneScapegoods for real money, otherwise known asreal-world trading,  constitutes a violation of the Terms.
Accounts can be permanentlybannedafter repeated, severe infractions of game rules, most notably major bug abuse,botting, andreal world trading. Players can also be banned for their conduct on forums. Permanently banned or muted players may appeal mutes and some types of bans. Jagex moderators will check the accuracy of the ban and whether the offence resulted from the activity of a hijacker. Ban appeals are a "last chance" appeal, and if denied, Jagex will not look at it again, nor will they respond to further ban appeals for that account.
Repeated offenses over multiple accounts can result in banning based on IP address, the digital number assigned to individual computers' connections to the internet. Since IP addresses are sometimes re-assigned, players have mistakenly been banned due to the IP they accessed the game from.
Newfree-to-playaccounts have trade restrictions in place until the account's logged in time surpasses 20 hours of game time, 10 or morequest pointsare acquired,andreaching 100 total level.[4]Such restrictions include a block from selling certain items on theGrand Exchange. This restriction is in place to help preventbottedand black-market goods from entering the economy, as many of the accounts are caught and banned before they can be logged in for 20 hours in total.[5]
New accounts are also barred from receiving tradeable rewards upon completion of aholiday event, such asEaster eggs,Halloween masks, orpartyhats. If this limitation applies, the player will be told to return to the main event NPC after sufficient in-game time has passed to claim their tradeable rewards.[6]This measure was put in place to prevent players from creating new accounts en masse to collect the potentially valuable event items.[7]
Secondary accounts,alternate accounts, oralts, are generally lower levelled or less frequently used accounts (some of which arepuresand throwaway accounts).
Athrowaway account, also sometimes called aragor aragger, is an alternate account that has been created to carry out a certain task, with the owner having no intention of developing the account. It is sometimes used to accomplish something controversial or malicious, such asgriefing, which is the act of intentionally ruining other players' gaming experiences by using aspects of the game in unintended ways, or disrupting the community. (The act is also known asragging.) It can also be used to experience or re-experience low level content andquests. InPVP, alternative accounts are commonly used to scout out dangerous locations or to scout for enemy players.
Many players opt to play both a normal account and anironmanto experience the game in a different way without limiting themselves to only the other. This also applies topures.
A common use of alternate accounts is to make money while training skills on the main account, allowing the player to sustain wealth whilst always using expensive methods with high experience rates.Runecraft,merchantingand killing profitableSlayermonsters are common methods of money making for this purpose, as they are relatively low effort to allow playing two accounts at once.
Secondary accounts can also be used asscoutsto assessWildernessdangers (e.g.MiningruniteorKing Black Dragonhunting), asstoragein which they are referred to asmulesormule accounts(mules arenotallowed inDeadman Mode), to repair theBlast Furnace, and a variety of other tasks provided they have sufficient levels. As a scout, secondary accounts are essential since they can help seek out dangers and avoid yourmainfrom falling victim to aplayer killer. Also, as a player killer, a scout can be used to seek out potential victims.
Throwaway accounts are sometimes used by players to explore newly updated content already completed on their more advanced character. For example, when a revision of the tutorial (Tutorial Island,Troll Warzone,Ashdale, etc.) was released onRuneScape 3, many players created throwaway accounts to explore the new content. Typically, these accounts are abandoned and never seen online again.
Questssuch asHeroes' QuestorShield of Arravrequire a partner. However, you will need to have both accounts logged in at the same time which conforms to the rules as long as it doesn't involverulebreakingorglitching.[2]
Additionally, prior to theCustom Nightmare Zoneupdate, players would useboosteraccounts, which only had certain quests completed to unlock certainbossesthat cater to the player'scombatneeds and build.Nightmare Zoneboosting may still be done, but this practice has lost significant popularity due to said update.
More malicious throwaway accounts include gold-farmingbotsthat are created to continuously play the game to make gold to sell to players for real-world money (i.e.real world trading). Accounts are also used as auto-talkers to advertise sites tradingRuneScapegold.
Throwaway accounts are also used to insult andscamother players. These accounts are often reported quickly, andbannedsoon after as they do nothing except negatively influence the community's well-being.
While other players can always choose toignorethe player in question, illegitimate throwaway accounts are often reported andbanned. In some rare cases, throwaway accounts will be traced byJagex moderatorsresulting in action being taken towards the user'smainaccount(s).
Players' legal rights are described in Jagex'sprivacy policy, subject to theGDPR(for EU residents), theCalifornia Consumer Privacy Act(for California residents), and theDPA 2018(amended by theData Protection, Privacy and Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019).
Under certain circumstances, outlined in the privacy policy and UK legislation, players may:
A data subject access request may be submitted usingthis form(requires login). Jagex must respond with the outcome of the request within 3 months, and inform the player if the request takes more than one month to process.
8mago-Crabby