[Page: Account Management]

Theaccount managementtab shows information related to the player's account. It has three tabs: Account, Community and Links.
The Account tab displays the following:
The display name interface shows how long players have until they can change their display name, and how many extra free changes they have redeemed withbonds. The 'Look up name' button found near the bottom of the menu allows players to check if a name is available or not; this can be done even if players aren't eligible to change their name yet.
If the name is available, the status box in the middle of the menu will now show the name and "Available". If players want to change their account to use the available name, they must click the "Confirm" button found at the bottom of the name change menu. Clicking it willinstantlychange the player's name. To check the availability of another name, clicking the button labelled "Another name" directly above the confirmation button allows players to enter a new one.
Once the player changes their name, they will need to log out and in if they wish to change it again using the in-game menu. If a bond was redeemed for a name change, and the in-game menu does not recognise this, it can be fixed by logging out and back in.
In addition, it is not possible for the game to know if a reserved name is reserved to the player themselves; this must be done via the RuneScape Website.
There are certain restrictions on which display names may be chosen for a character. These are:
If a display name is seen to be offensive or deceptive,Jagexcan remove the name, and replace it with a temporary name (a random set of numbers). The player will be forced to change the name before being able to log in. If a user repeatedly chooses offensive names, they will not have the ability to change their name for one year and will be assigned one by a Jagex Moderator.
Once a user has chosen a new display name, their old one will be reserved for an amount of time. The name will be reserved for at least 35 days. For the first 28 of these it isn't possible to change the display name without using abond, so they've got at least a week to return to their old name if they wish to do so. Once these days have passed, the old display name will no longer be on hold and can be taken by others.
When a player changes their display name, an icon will appear to the right of the name on theFriends listof any player who has them added as a friend. By hovering their cursors over the icon, players can see the old name of an account, so as to avoid any confusion. A similar update has not been made for theClan Chat. The blue icon will disappear once the player's previous name becomes available.
A few other things can also be said about display names:
The Community tab displays the following:
The Links tab displays the following useful links:
The in-game display name change menu now has 'Confirm' written on the confirmation button and will display your chosen name in the 'Status' field instead.
The Account Management tab now has a link toRuneScape's mechandise store.
The Account Management tab now has an Old School Wiki link among other additional useful links.
The Account Management tab has been added to the desktop client, taking theIgnore List's place, which was merged withFriends List.
Fixed an issue where display names appeared to change.
