[Page: Botting]

Macroing,botting, orautoingis the act of using third-party software to perform automated tasks. A macro operates by automating user input to the game. A simple macro may just move the cursor to a certain position and perform a click while more advanced ones may interact with the game client directly; as technology advances, botting methods as well as their countermeasures have evolved from simple macros to utilisingmachine learning. The termsmacroer,autoer,botterorbotusually refer to players who use such programs. Usage of macros is not allowed under theRuneScaperules(Rule 7) and may result in action taken against that player'saccount, such as a temporary or permanentban. Moreover,Jagexhas the authority and power to reset or rollback a player'sskilllevels and/orbankvalue before initiating a ban.
Macros can be programmed to perform almost any task. Typically, they are used to perform tasks deemed overly tedious by real players, such as training a particular skill, collecting a certain item, or quickly typing an offer or phrase.
On10 December2007, Jagex implemented a number of updates aimed at ending the use of macros in the game. Although these updates have been successful at drastically cutting down on the number of both macros andreal-world traders, reactions among players were mixed concerning how well-implemented these updates were. As a result of a referendum, many of these updates which had lowered the number of bots in the game were removed on1 February2011.
Like normal players, a macro tool needs to control the game by giving the appropriate inputs. These controls result in some game reaction that the macro needs to observe and interpret to plan the next action. Typically, a macro is either a colour-coded or reflection-coded bot programmed in Java or in other programming languages.
Colour bots are a primitive form of botting that uses colours in the game to perform. It is done by the bot being told to recognise a certain type of colour on the screen and clicking on that colour. After a certain period of time, the colour has either disappeared or is then clicked again. More complex colour bots can scan certain images or 3D objects in game. After using the same strategy, it then moves to another location. These bots are unreliable and are mostly rendered temporarily useless if the colours or the graphics are changed. Jagex broke lots of these bots by changing the colour in therandom eventsalthough some colour bots can get around this by scanning the object instead of looking for a certain colour onscreen. This poses a large challenge to these bots and their creators which means they constantly have to update their bots. As colour bots do not read or write to the game's code, if scripted well, they can be almost undetectable to Jagex. This is one of the main reasons why some players use colour bots even when injection is available.
An injection bot is a type of bot that utilises theRuneScapecode itself. It injects itself into the RuneScape client and is able to read the client's code. It makes sense of the code and is able to make choices based on what the code states it will do. This is similar to how we react to what we see on the screen. However, an injection bot does not see the pictures; it sees the computer code that generates the pictures and can modify that code to be alerted when things happen. By doing this, it can do very complex commands and typically can be coded to do anything that humans do and act as we do. When combating this type of bot, it must be given a piece of computer code that it has not seen before, or a variation of it that would cause it to hook into the wrong part of the code to receive notifications. When most injection bots mess up, it is often caused by Jagex updating or changing objects in the game. The most successful instance of messing up injection bots was the update introducing theBot Nuke. This update disabled most injection and reflection bots by changing where they can access code and putting false code for the bots to read, thus messing them up and causing the weird behaviour.
Reflection bots create a mirror image of theRuneScapeapplet by accessing the loaded classes and then read the code of the "reflected" copy, without injecting any code. This is considered to be much harder to detect than injection but, if done right, both are completely undetectable. Most bots used both injection and reflection to be able to gather as much data as possible. A custom-engineered game client is used to run the bot rather than through a web browser with Jagex's official client (as is done with most colour-based bots). This allows the game to be slightly modified making it listen to fake mouse or key events (thus allowing the bot owner to do other things while using the bot) and to disable direct system access (say: faking runtime information) to mislead Jagex's servers.
Another type are graphic driver-based bots. These types of bots hijack the current API, such as DirectX or OpenGL, which render the game's graphics to the screen, and use the data gathered to locate players and other objects. These types of bots can also use ID's like injection/reflection but not all require a custom-engineered game client. These bots can basically read the 3D models from the graphics card to determine what's onscreen.
Packet bots were one of the first type of bots to be around inRuneScape; they could send commands to Jagex's game servers in the form of packets filled with information such as the coordinates the bot wanted to walk towards. Packet bots no longer exist inRuneScapeas Jagex took a swipe at the packet bots by encrypting and changing communications, resulting in one of the first massive bans. Cheating was pronounced dead, for the first time.
The gaming engine is the part of the macro that interacts with the game, and then analyses the responses. A software program running on the game-playing computer usually has the capability to generate mouse input (move, click, drag, etc.) and keyboard input (key down, key up). Analysing the response from the game can be done by capturing the entire game image (although some image processing might be required to obtain information about the game response). The gaming engine provides the basic mechanisms to play the game, but it requires task-specific knowledge to actually perform the macro operation. Some programs use colour recognition and click colours on the screen while others interface directly with the game.
Many websites claim to have an undetectable macro program that will not only earn your character quick gold but will make it appear as if it is a real person playing instead of a program. In addition to the risk of getting banned for such programs, downloading these programs can lead to keyloggers or other malicious programs getting into your computer. This most often happens when the program is downloaded from a private source usually claiming to be a cracked version of an expensive macro program. Due to the risk of being banned and having your account hijacked, it is strongly suggested that you doNOTuse any third-party programs related toRuneScapebotting. The high risk of being banned is enough to deter most players from using third-party botting software.
Several common types of macro are used by bots and cheaters, such as:
Many macros or gold farmers can be found performing highly repetitive tasks such aschoppingtrees, orfishinglobsters. Although many activities can lead to suspicion of macroing, keep in mind that players who display the following characteristics are not always bots.
Current bots usually have complex code that can respond to, and overcome, attempts to disrupt their task. Prior to the use of these more advanced bots, players would throwgnomeballsat bots, lure them to aggressive monsters, or close a door or gate to trap bots. Although simple techniques like these no longer work consistently, many players spend a great deal of time discovering new ways to impede the actions of bots. Jagex also continues to add features to the game that make macroing more difficult and to remove macroers from the game. Most bots avoid patterns in their movement during the present days like fletching at random intervals unlike repetitive behaviour of older bots. As time continues both sides get smarter in their way of stopping/botting which makes botting an endless problem.
Some players argue that macros benefit the game by performing tasks that no person would want to do, such as cuttingyew treesconstantly. Many disagree, however, arguing that macros sell vast amounts of resources causing the price of those resources to plummet. This then hurts legitimate players who are trying to make money selling that same item.
Many monsters that are monotonous and relatively safe to kill are targets for macroers, such aschaos druids(frequent goodherbdroppers), which then causes those herb prices to drop. However, areas that require difficult and/or complexqueststo complete most likely have no macros. In addition, unique drops from monsters that require human intelligence to kill will not have their prices fall because of bots. Other examples include the rare drops from theDagannoth Kings. When the macroer finally gets banned for cheating, the rare items remain with the banned player, thus meaning there are fewer of those items in the game, which further drives up their prices.
Macros can also cause the price of rare items to rise. Firstly, by spending their millions that were made easily through cheating they out-bid honest players for rare items, pushing their prices up. When the macroer finally gets banned for cheating, the rare items remain with the banned player meaning there are fewer of those items in the game, which further drives up their prices.
Macros making money are known as gold farmers and most are for gold selling sites.
Jagexhas responded to the use of macros by banning thousands of accounts, wiping stats, and deleting items. The most prominent response by Jagex was the removal of free trade and other changes that occurred on10 December2007. While the changes were highly controversial, they did succeed in greatly decreasing the prevalence of bots inRuneScape. These changes did not, however, eradicate botting altogether, and Jagex continues to enhance its ability to ban bot accounts and disrupt bot activities to this day. Improvements in macro and real world trading detection led to the return of free trade on1 February2011. Jagex has further clarified its action against those who use bots in otherposts on the forums. Bots continued to be a problem in game, however, prompting a post by Mod Paul on the RuneScape forums in an attempt to address the concerns that some players have had about the high number of bots and Jagex's attempts to combat them.[1]
On25 October2011, an update code-named "ClusterFlutterer", also known as "Bot Nuking Day" or simply "Nuke Day", was implemented aimed at preventing reflection and injection bots from functioning. This aimed to prevent bots from functioning by directly reading the game's java code. Jagex believes that this consisted of 98% of all bots seen in the game. Also, upon revealing ClusterFlutterer, Jagex stated that over 1.5 million bots had been recently banned.
September 2012 saw the addition of "Botwatch", a set of aggressive bot-detection software intended to more accurately find macros and automatically ban them.
8mago-Crabby