[Page: Defence]

Defenceis askillthat grantsplayersprotection in all forms ofcombat. Defence level also determines whichequipmentplayers are able to wear, as most pieces of armour or other equipment have a Defence level requirement.
The higher a target's Defence level, the less likely one is to land successful attacks (MeleeorRanged-based damage greater than zero, orMagic-based offensive spells that don'tSplash) against said target. As such, it is a vital skill in high-levelPvMandPvPsituations. Defencedoes notdecrease the amount of damage that an opponent can deal against you.
A player's Ranged level will not increase their ranged defence, but magical defence is different - it is based on 70% of the player'sMagiclevel, while the remaining 30% is the player's Defence level, which is then followed by the player's magical defence bonus from theirarmour.
Defence is one of the skills that will raise thecombat levelof a player regardless of other skill levels. For this reason, manycombat pureslevel Defence to a certain level then stop training it to minimise their combat level, giving them an upper hand in Player-versus-Player combat against players around their level. Notable Defence levels are often tied to specific tiers of items or prayers that lead to advantages in combat. To see a complete list of viable optimised Defence level, check theDefence level caps.
Almost every single piece ofcombat equipment(except for the ones that go on theweapon,cape,ring, andamulet slots) requires a certain Defence level to wear. Here are links to tables of armour and equipment that require a Defence level to wear:
RequiresBarbarian training.
RequiresBarbarian training.
In addition, there is a chance that theObservatory Questmay award 875Defence experience.
Upon completing any of the followingquests, players may choose to allocate experience to Defence. These rewards usually come in the form of items, such as lamps or books, and are independent of any experience rewards directly received for completing the quest.
The strength requirement of Granite has been specified in the Defence skillguide.
9mago-Crabby