[Page: Equipment Stats]

Equipment Stats(also calledequipment bonuses,combat stats, orbonuses) are the bonuses given by the armour and weapons that a player is wearing. The bonuses of a player can be found in the Worn Equipment section of the player interface. In general, higher level items give greater bonuses than their lower-level counterparts. Some items that can be equipped do not actually possess any bonuses, e.g. thebrass necklace. The bonuses an item provides are placed into three different categories: Attack bonus, Defence bonus, and Other bonuses. These bonuses, in addition to level of the player's relevant combat skills and the attack style used, are used to calculate both the damage dealt and received during combat, and the likelihood of an attack being successful.
Attack bonuses are compared against the relevant defence bonuses of an enemy to determine thelikelihoodof hitting an enemy.
The attack style used by a player determines which attack bonuses will be compared against their opponents defence bonuses in that style. If a player chose to use a slashing style, then their slashing attack bonuses would be compared against their opponents slashing defence bonuses in order to determine what damage was dealt from the attack.
Weapons usually have a certain style that they have particularly high bonuses in. For example,longswordstend to have their highest bonus in the slashing style.
The higher the attack bonus of the desired attack style, the higher the chance the player will hit () during combat.
Defence bonuses are compared against the relevant attack bonuses of an enemy to determine thelikelihoodof being hit by an enemy and vice versa; a monster's likelihood of hitting a player.
In general, melee armour has good stab/slash/crush/ranged defensive bonuses but poor magic bonuses, magic armour has good stab/slash/crush/magic defensive bonuses but poor ranged bonuses, and ranged armour tends to have good magic/ranged defence bonuses but poor stab/slash/crush bonuses.
It is possible for an item to have negative bonuses, such as arune platebody, providing negative bonuses towards magic defence.
The higher the defensive bonus, the higher the chance the opponent will hit a zero () during combat. Within this, a player'sdefencelevel also plays a role within the chance of an opponent hitting. However, a player'smagiclevel plays a role in magic defence where 70% of the player's magic level and 30% of their defence level is their defence against magical attacks.
NPC's defence roll works the same way as players with an exception. NPC magic defence roll is calculated with its magic level and magic defence bonus. NPC's defence level doesn't matter against players magic.[1]
The Equipment interface shows theattack speedfor your currently equipped weapon and selectedattack style. This shows the 'base' attack speed, as well as any modifiers that might be in place. For example, aMagic shortbowwould show as a 2.4s base attack speed, with a 1.8s 'actual' attack speed when using theRapidattack style.
Melee stats are now grouped together on the equipment screen.
The Equipment interface now shows theattack speedfor your currently equipped weapon and selectedattack style.
9mago-Crabby