[Page: Experience]

Experience, commonly abbreviated asEXPorXP, is a measure of progress forskills. It is obtained by performing tasks related to that skill. Experience can also be gained through other means, such asquests, thebook of knowledgefrom theSurprise Examrandom event, alampfrom thegenierandom event, certainminigames, and lamps for completing parts of theAchievement DiaryandCombat Achievements.
After gaining a certain amount of experience, players will advance to the nextlevelin that skill, which can result in new abilities, and the chance to try more quests. The amount of experience needed for the next level is approximately 10% more than the last level. For example, 83 experience is required for advancement to level 2, while 91 experience is required for advancement to level 3. Reaching level 99 in a skill requires a total of 13,034,431 experience. By around level 30, the exponential factor predominates, so that the amount of experience required doubles for each 7th level. Accordingly, level 92 is nearly the exact halfway mark to level 99, requiring 6,517,253 experience, and level 85 requires very nearly one quarter of the experience needed for level 99. The "92 is half of 99" rule can be seen visually below.
Experience is stored as a signed integer with 32 bit length, that is treated like a fixed-point number with one decimal place,[1]although the game does not display decimal values; for example, if a player receives two experience drops of 2.5, the first is shown as 2 and the second as 3 (or vice versa depending on their existing experience points). Experience values that would have multiple decimal points, such as through multiplication withexperience-boosting sets, are rounded down to one decimal. The maximum value of a signed integer is 2,147,483,647, treating the ones as the first decimal place, it has a max value of 214,748,364.7, hence the experience that can be obtained in one skill is capped at200,000,000. The skill can still be trained afterwards, but no experience will be received.
The experience difference between levelL−1and levelLis14⌊L−1+300⋅2L−17⌋. The tables below show this experience difference for each level and also the cumulative experience from level 1 to levelL.
While skills cannot be levelled past 99, players sometimes use "virtual" levels to track their XP amounts beyond the level cap.
The formula needed to calculate the amount of experience needed to reach levelLis:
If the floor functions are ignored, the resulting summation can be found in closed form to be:
The approximation is very accurate, always being within 14 experience of the true value.
One final approximation is
whereγis theEuler–Mascheroni constant. This approximation always gives an answer within 1 experience of the true value.
The experience required for each level can be graphed. Graphing the experience required on a linear scale shows that the experience required is essentially exponential.
Graphing the same data on a logarithmic scale shows that the function starts being exponential around level 15.
Roughly after level 20, the experience required to reach 7 more levels in a skill is nearly the same amount of experience required to reach the current level of a skill, hence the total experience at level 92 being half of the total experience at level 99.
This "X is half of X+7" rule becomes more accurate the higher the skill level is:
9mago-Crabby