[Page: Firemaking]

Firemakingis askillused to light fires, among other things. It is the artisan companion skill ofWoodcutting. Firemaking is trained by players to completequestsor participate inminigames. A number of quests with quality rewards require Firemaking levels, such asRecipe for DisasterandDesert Treasure I. Similarly, Firemaking-oriented minigames with useful rewards includeShades of Mort'tonand theWintertodt boss. Firemaking allows players to light logs in order to be able to cook food anywhere, albeit with a higher burn chance than with arange.Wintertodtis a solid way to train Firemaking whilst also being profitable. Subduing the Wintertodt is the only way to obtain thepyromancer outfit.
Burnt-out fires leave behindasheswhich some members may use to trainHerblorewith by makingSerum 207. Players can turn a profit from burning cheaper logs and collecting the ashes, though at the cost of experience per hour.
To make afire, players need anylogand atinderbox. Alternatively, they may use mostbows, which requires the Firemaking section ofBarbarian Training.
To burn a log, a player must:
Once the player creates a fire, they will walk one step to the west if there is room there; otherwise, they will take one step east. If both ways are blocked, the player will move south. If all three ways are blocked, the player will travel north.
Players can go to a large open area such as the Grand Exchange and light many logs in a row. After starting one fire with a clear path to the west, more fires could be rapidly lit. When the avatar is in the process of making one fire, the player would prepare to start the next immediately after lighting the first fire.
Players may bring an additional tinderbox placed in opposite corners of their inventory to slightly reduce mouse travelling movement.
Fires require an empty ground upon which to light, with additional restrictions on select buildings and other locations, including plants and ferns, adjacent to growing vines, in doorways. Additionally, closed doors block the creation of fires—except inDraynor. Conversely, open doors do not prevent Firemaking.
Forester's Campfires are a special type of fire whereby logs are continuously added to a fire without additional player action at a reduced experience rate. This allows for low-effort Firemaking training if performed near a bank. Players can create Forester's Campfires by using a log on an existing fire, or atselect permanent fire locations. Campfires cannot be created within 5 tiles radius of another campfire.
Different logs require different levels to ignite, as shown in the table below. When a log is lit, it will stay on fire for a short while. How long a fire stays lit is always random despite the player's Firemaking level and type of log. As a result,yew logsdo not necessarily burn longer thanwillow logs. Playerscanuse temporary boosts to burn logs which they otherwise may not be able to (for example, a player with 85 Firemaking could use a spicy stew to boost to 90 in order to burn redwood logs).
To makepyre logs, players needsacred oil, created during theShades of Mort'tonminigame. Sacred oil is created fromolive oil(sold in theRazmire General StoreinMort'ton), and requires the player to assist in repairing and/or defending theFlamtaertemple north of Mort'ton. Once the temple has been fully repaired, the altar in the centre of the temple can be lit and olive oil can be used on the altar to turn it into sacred oil. Sanctifying oil drains Sanctity points, which are passively gained as the player repairs and defends the temple, so the oil cannot be sanctified without participating in the minigame, even if the temple is repaired and the altar is lit by other players.
A pyre log is obtained by applying sacred oil to the corresponding regular version of the log. Players can use sacred oil on the log. This will turn the log into a pyre log, which can be used in combination withShade remainson the funeral pyres around the outskirts of Mort'ton to cremate the remains, yieldingShade keys. Higher level logs require more doses of sacred oil to convert each log into a pyre log.
Barbarian Firemaking is part of theBarbarian trainingthat starts by talking toOtto Godblessedclose toBarbarian Outpost. A player must have a Firemaking level of at least 35 in order to burn the oak log that is required for the Firemaking portion of Barbarian training.
There are two types of activities that fall under Barbarian Firemaking: lighting fires with a bow and lightingpyre ships.
Barbarian Firemaking works by using most types of bows in the inventory on a log. Most bows not made by a player with logs will not work, with a notable exception being theSeercull. Bow Firemaking requires 20 levels higher in Firemaking than normal in order to light the same type of log as with a tinderbox, yet gives no additional Firemaking experience.
There are no inherent advantages or disadvantages to use a bow instead of a tinderbox, except for freeing up an inventory slot.
Warning: This activity is dangerous.
Items needed:
This activity requires both Firemaking andCraftinglevels of at least 11 to participate.Chewedandmangled bonesare acquired in theAncient Cavern, a very high risk area. Use the required items on one of the burnt spaces (pyre sites) just north ofOtto's Grottoto make a pyre ship. Burning a pyre ship will grant the player a prayer bonus of up to 300%, depending on the logs used, the next time the player buriesbones.
Memberscan lightlanternsto increase visibility in poorly lit areas. Players cannot receive experience by lighting a lantern. Some lanterns requirelantern lenswhich can be made by using theCraftingskill. There is a shop inDorgesh-Kaan, which sell lanterns and other Firemaking equipment. There is also aCandle ShopinCatherbywhere players can buycandles.
Firemaking can also be of use in a method of transportation. By having completed theEnlightened Journeyquest and having a certain amount of logs, a player may travel to the following places:
Based on crowdsourced data, the chance of successfully lighting any type of log, other than logs coloured with agnomish firelighter, is believed to be 65/256 at level 1 and 513/256 at level 99 (with 256/256 being achieved at 43), interpolating linearly in between. Coloured logs will always have a 100% chance of being ignited.[3]
Upon completing any of the following quests, players may choose to allocate experience to Firemaking. These rewards usually come in the form of items, such as lamps or books, and are independent of any experience rewards directly received for completing the quest.
9mago-Crabby