[Page: Fire]

Afireis a pile of burninglogslit on fire using theFiremakingskill. Manyfoodscan be cooked on a fire, given the player has the requiredCookinglevel.
To light logs, players just need to use a tinderbox with logs, which can be in their inventory or lying on the ground, granting Firemakingexperiencedepending on the type of log used. A fire can be lit almost anywhere, including indoors in some buildings, but not on top of another fire, when standing on objects such as ferns or flowers, or in front of a closed door (but can be lit in front of an open door). The fire will last anywhere from roughly 1 to 2 minutes[1], leaving behindashesonce it is gone. The type of logs used for the fire does not alter the duration.
A log can also be lit by most bows after finishing the Firemaking section of theBarbarian Trainingminiquest.
After lighting a fire, players automatically walk one step to the west. If the way is blocked, they will instead take one step east; if west and east are both blocked, south; if west, east and south are all blocked, north. If all cardinal directions are blocked, the player will remain on top of the fire.
If players light one fire and have a clear path to the west for more fires, they can immediately light the next fire by using a tinderbox with the logs just after they finished lighting the first log. This way the fire will start burning before the player even attempts to light it. This is a much faster way to burn logs than burning each one separately. This method of burning logs is calledpower firemaking.
If multiple players attempt to light a fire at the same spot, only one player would have their fire lit and the other players' logs would be dropped on the same spot.
Gnomish firelighterscan be used on regularlogsto produce coloured logs, includingblue,green,purple,red, andwhite logs. These create coloured flames when lit and reward 50Firemakingexperience, 10 more experience than lighting regular logs.
There are several permanent fires which never burn down to ashes. These can be found in the following locations:
After completingMaking Friends with My Arm, players gain access to thesalt minesbelowWeiss. The mines contain four rocks, including:efh salt,te salt,urt saltandbasalt. These salts can be used in player-madefire pitsaroundRuneScape. These braziers impart permanent effects on their respective locations.
Each fire pit requires 2steel barsand 2mahogany planksto make, as well as varying amounts ofsaltbased on the type of fire pit being lit.
Mostbankareas do not allow players to light fires in them. Attempting to light a fire on any tile which already contains any part ofscenerywill also prompt the players thatYou can't light a fire here.. Furthermore, severalminigamelocations do not allow players to light a fire, plantmithriloradamant seeds, place anyHuntertraps, nor place down acannon. These include:
Aside from this, some specific areas have a specific message when attempting to light a fire:
The fires at Barbarian Village and Rogue's Den can now be used by left-clicking.
A permanent fire has been added near the Barbarian Village fishing spot.
9mago-Crabby