[Page: Group Ironman Mode]

Group Ironman Modeis anIronman Modevariant which was released on6 October2021, following the result of a successfulpoll. It has Unranked and Hardcore variants.
The mode allows 2 to 5 players to group up together with all normal Ironman Mode restrictions. Only newly created accounts can enable group ironman mode. (Hardcore Group Ironmen have additional restrictions compared to normalHardcore Ironmen, seeCombat)
Ironman accounts can change to anunrankedGroup Ironman and join a group that way. This is only aone waychange. There is a seven day grace period after requesting a change to cancel it before the account is made an unranked group ironman.
Players that join a group before it is founded have prestige status, which allows them to be free of trading restrictions.
Group Ironman players may freely trade within the group. New members (ie. those who do not have Prestige status) that join an existing group will be subject to trade limit caps that increase weekly. This cap applies to all items and gold received from other members and from shared storage as follows:
A player outside of a group trying to trade a player within one yields the message "[Player name] is a Group Ironman. [He/She/They] can only trade members of their group." Attempting to throw ahandeggto one yields the message "[Player name] is an Ironman. [He/She/They] stands[sic]with their group.".
Group Ironman players adhere to the drop mechanics of a traditionalIronmanwithin theWilderness; with the notable exception that they are able to loot drops from killing their group members. Items such as theEmberlightare untradeable in weapon form, but revert to the tradeablesynapseon a PvP death. This is one such situation where that exception has a purpose. In order to trade the components, ensure loot keys aredisabled, otherwise the only option will be to destroy the item.
Group Ironman players have access to their group's shared storage, available via the regular Bank interface. All players in the group can deposit into the shared storage, but only one player can access it at a time.
Initially, there are 80 bank spaces. However by any member of the team completing a task as listed below, they permanently increase that team's group storage by a number of slots (as specified) up to a maximum of 200 group storage bank spaces. In Group Storage, these tasks can be found by selecting the "Storage Unlocks" icon. They can also be found in the Iron Group settings. Groups are ineligible to unlock group storage slots until 5 weeks have passed.
Drops work similarly to Ironman Mode drops. If any person outside the group hits an NPC, the drop will go to the person outside the group or disappear. If only group members hit the NPC, the drop will go to the group member who dealt the most damage.
Hardcore Group Ironmen will lose lives after an unsafe death, similar to solo hardcore Ironman mode. The group has a shared pool of 1 life per player; for example, a group of 3 players shares 3 lives between them and will lose Hardcore status after losing the third life. Lives can be lost by any player, and multiple lives can be lost by a single player. Unlike solo hardcore Ironman mode, all PvM-related deaths are unsafe and will result in a loss of a life. This includes deaths inside minigames such asChambers of XericandFight Caves. Hardcore Group Ironman players should take extra care in minigames such asPest Controlas other players can provoke monsters such assplattersand cause them to detonate close to you.Make sure to leave theNightmare Zonevia the exit potion instead of dying.
Just as with normal Hardcore Ironmen in PvP, safe deaths can take place inLast Man Standing,Soul Wars(both PvM and PvP deaths), andCastle Wars.[1]
In PvP combat, Group Ironmen receive 1/8th the standard experience of PvM content. For example, hitting a 10 while training Strength in PvM would normally net 40 Strength and 13.3 HP experience. However, in PvP combat, a Group Ironman receives 5 Strength and 1.6 HP experience.
Group Prestige is a cosmetic indicator that is reserved for groups consisting of original members or those who have not engaged in certain PvM activities with other players outside the group. This indicator is displayed via a gold star icon next to the in-game group list and on theHiScores. Group prestige has no impact on gameplay. Group leaders are able to opt-out of this upon the creation of the group.
Members will be warned if an action will result in the loss of group prestige. Activities that result in loss of group prestige status include:
Adding a member who has previously left the node will also cause the group to lose ranked status
Unlike group prestige, individual prestige affects a group member's ability to trade wealth and items and is applied individually to each member of a group. This system is used to prevent illicit activities and is denoted by a star icon next to the player's name within the group in-game. All original members will have individual prestige when the group is formed. Group ironman players joining a new group will not have individual prestige.
A group member without individual prestige is unable to use most unique items from raids, regular bosses, and slayer bosses without having killed those bosses at least once.[2]In addition, there are several non-boss items that are locked behind killing the monster that drops them at least once. These items include but are not limited to:[3][4]
These restrictions will expire at the end of the fifth week, while the trading cap is lifted at the beginning of the fifth week.[5][6]
To become an Ironman, players must speak with theIronman tutoronTutorial Islandbefore completing the tutorial. After selecting a Group Ironman mode at the tutor, players must then visitThe Nodesouth of the island to form or join a group. Group leaders have the option to create a group, set a group name, and invite players. This is done through the Group Ironman tab within the social tab. Up to 4 additional players can be invited in the group. Group leaders can choose to opt out of group prestige.
The group member that creates the group by default will be the group leader. Leaders of ranked groups can only invite fresh accounts to the group. This is to prevent unfair advantages to groups by inviting experienced players to the group. Groups will be automatically disbanded if there are no more members in the group and the leader leaves.
To join a group, players must travel to The Node.  Players can apply to be a group leader by talking to Tony, theGroup Ironman tutor, then they can apply other players to their group by using the right-click optionApplyon them.
Group Ironman players can leave the group one of two ways. Players can choose to leave or be kicked by the leader. Players leaving the group voluntarily will have a 7 day grace period in which they can change their mind. This grace period serves two purposes: allowing players to change their mind, and provide a safety net for misclicks and account hijacking. Members that are kicked from the group will have a 7 day grace period to settle their affairs with the group.  During both grace periods, the player can still trade normally with other members of the group. Also during this grace period, you will not be able to join any other groups. Groups will be automatically disbanded if there are no more members in the group and the leader leaves.
Upon leaving the group, the player will have three options: retain their ranked Group Ironman Mode status, become an Unranked Group Ironman, or become a regular account. This decision is very important as it decides whether or nottradeableitems are deleted from the account and whether you will be listed on the HiScores. It is important to note that all stats, untradeable items, quest progression are retained for either decision.
Keeping ranked Group Ironman status will result in the creation of a new group with the player as the leader andall tradeable items are deleted. If the new leader is a free-to-play account, all of the members only items are deleted as well. Becoming an Unranked Group Ironman will result in the creation of a new group with the player as the leaderand all items will be kept, but you will be removed from the GIM HiScores.
Be advised that if a player leaves a group after they leave the Node and chooses to stay a ranked Group Ironman,they cannot join another group that has already left the Node.Once you leave your group, you are only able tocreatenew groups.
Converting to a regular account will retain all the progress and items on the account. The player will be removed from the group and Group Ironman HiScores.
The leader of a group can choose to step down from their position at any time by talking to theGroup Ironman tutoronthe Node. There is a seven day grace period before their decision takes effect. This is to prevent hijackers taking over accounts and maliciously making players step down as leader of their groups.
When a leader steps down, another player must take their place. The abdicator chooses the new leader, and they will not be able to step down until a successor has been chosen.
If the leader has been inactive for 30 days, leadership will be assigned to the group member who has been in the group the longest. If more than one member joined the same day, leadership will go to whichever member joined the group first. The leader is not removed from the group, just demoted.
If there's no one else in the group, the leader can't step down. Instead, the group will be disbanded only when they themselves leave.
Unranked groups are a sub-category of Group Ironman Mode, which are Group Ironmen that are not listed on the Group IronmanHiScores. There are no trade restrictions or killcount requirements for unranked groups.
Additionally, current Ironman accounts can change to an Unranked Group Ironman and join a group that way. This is only one way,once an Ironman changes it cannot be reverted.
Should players wish to join a new group or invite a new player to their group, players can convert their existing Group Ironman status to unranked, removing their group from the HiScores.
A group that invites an experienced player will:
If players leave an existing group, they may also choose to adopt Unranked status:
Group Ironman now have the option to broadcastCombat Achievementstask completions.
The Group Ironman Mode banner seen on the welcome screen.
Official Group Ironman Mode artwork.
9mago-Crabby