[Page: Ironman Mode]

Ironman Modeis an account type, released on13 October2014, that requires the player to be almost entirely self-sufficient. Ironmen are locked out of or restricted in most forms of interactions with other players such astrading, theGrand Exchange,PvP, and almost all other group activities. Attempting to trade with a Ironman will yield the chatbox message "[Player name] is an Ironman. [He/She/They] stands[sic]alone."
Ironman Mode can only be enabled at the end ofTutorial Islandby speaking to theIronman tutorbefore being teleported by theMagic Instructor. There will be an option to convert it to a standard account (or to a regular Ironman in the case of a Hardcore or Ultimate Ironman) at any point after the tutorial by talking to the tutors inLumbridge, but this conversion is permanent, and an account cannot be remade an Ironman. After confirming to toggle Ironman Mode off, there will be a 7-day waiting period before the toggle will take effect, during which time the player may cancel the change if they change their mind or if their account had been hijacked; the change is also cancelled if a Hardcore Ironman dies during the waiting period to become a standard account.
Players may also choose to downgrade an Ironman with a 90-day waiting period by talking to theIronman tutorin Lumbridge. This requires a skill total level of 1,000 to set, and a warning will appear upon login to remind players should they wish to reverse the process.
Standard Ironman andUltimate Ironmanwere both released on13 October2014.
Hardcore Ironmanwas later released on10 November2016.
Group IronmanandHardcore Group Ironmanwere both released on6 October2021.
Unranked Group Ironmanwas released on26 May2022.
There are six types of Ironman accounts: A standard Ironman, a Hardcore Ironman, an Ultimate Ironman, a Group Ironman, a Hardcore Group Ironman and Unranked Group Ironman. Each type has their own armour (equivalent toiron equipment) and a chat badge to denote their status:
There are also fiveHiScoresfor Ironman Mode: One each for normal, Hardcore, Ultimate and Group and Hardcore Group Ironman accounts.
Ironman players areNOTable to do the following:
Hardcore Ironmanplayers will only haveone life, in addition to the standard restrictions given to all Ironmen. If a Hardcore Ironman dies, they will be converted to astandard Ironman. In addition, their experience and total level on the Hardcore IronmanHiScorestable will be locked, with their nameslashed across like this.
Safe deaths, such as those inminigames, willnotcause the player to become a standard Ironman. The following activities are deemed safe:
When a Hardcore Ironman dies, the following message appears in their chatbox:You have fallen as a Hardcore Ironman, your Hardcore status has been revoked.[sic]
For Hardcore Group Ironman only,there are no safe PvM deaths.The group has a shared pool ofone life per player; for example, a group of 3 players shares 3 lives between them and will lose Hardcore status after losing the third life. Lives can be lost by any player, and multiple lives can be lost by a single player.
Deaths that would normally be considered "safe" for solo Hardcore Ironmen areNOTsafe for Group Hardcore Ironmen. This means that each death in minigames such asBarbarian Assault,TzHaar Fight Cave, orChambers of Xericwill result in a loss of a life for the group. The only exception to this is theFremennik Trialsfight withKoschei the Deathless(4th phase). Hardcore Group Ironmen should take extra care to use the exit potion when leaving theNightmare Zone, since dying will result in the loss of a life for the group. They should also use extra caution in minigames such asPest Controlas other players can provoke monsters such assplattersand cause them to detonate close to you.
PvP minigames such asLast Man Standing,Clan Wars,Castle Warsand any type of death inSoul Warsare still safe deaths for Hardcore Group Ironmen.
Furthermore, Hardcore Group Ironmen are unable to challengeNexwith members outside of their group, regardless of Group Prestige.
Ultimate Ironmenhave a number of extra restrictions in addition to those of an Ironman, all centred around the inability to store items in abank:
Storage:
Death:
Ironmen can getbondsas gifts from other players or through the official Old School website. They can also turn untradeable bonds into tradeable bonds, and can give bonds to other players by using the item on them. Ironmen are able to buy bonds from the Grand Exchange, which disallows them from buying or selling any other item via a unique interface.
Ironmen can now givebondsto other players.
Ultimate Ironmen accounts can now toggle their deathanimation overridesviaDeath.
The ability to permanently lock in Ironman status has been removed, being replaced with a 90-day downgrading process. Players who've previously had their account locked in can now remove it, providing that it has been converted to aJagex Account.
A newsettingstoggle has been added which lets Ultimate Ironmen opt out ofdeath protectionfor cosmetics, affecting ornamented items. This applies only to PvM deaths; items loss on PvP death are not affected by the toggle.
Iron players who had previously set their status to permanent have been given an option to downgrade to Unranked Group Ironman. In addition, choosing permanent status is now considered fully permanent and requests to remove it will not be reviewed by Player Support.
For Ironmen, certain slayer monsters' loot and XP will be discredited if a player hits a 0. This is to discourage the use of alternate accounts to speed up the efficiency of certain tasks.
Ironman accounts must now be 1,000total levelto remove the ability to revert to a standard account.
Ultimate iron men can now un-pack the item sets received from the Halloween event.
Ironmen can no longer catch an Impling in Puro Puro that another player has had released by an Imp Defender.
Some more shops have been separated for iron men to prevent players helping them. We have removed the iron man status from some accounts that abused this to a large extent.
9mago-Crabby