[Page: Makeover]

Amakeoveris a feature in that allows players to change their character's appearance chosen duringthe tutorial. Their appearance can be changed after the tutorial free of charge in a number of places.
Appearance features that can be customised include hair, facial hair, body type, pronouns, torso, sleeves, bottoms, shoes, and wristwear. All features can be changed by visiting any of thenon-player charactersthat grant access to the makeover interface.
Players can also change their hair at adresserand their clothing at awardrobein aplayer-owned housebedroom. Unlike other makeover services, the styles and colours are chosen at random and players may have to do it multiple times to get the desired result.
Players can choose from 57 hairstyles and 15 choices of facial hair. There are additionally 30 possible colours for hair.
Players can choose between body type A and body type B for their character.
The pronouns players can choose include: "He/him", "They/them", and "She/her". If "They/them" is not the previously selected preferred pronoun setting, then selecting body type A and B will result in the pronouns setting automatically changing to "He/him" and "She/her" respectively.
There are 13 total skin colours available for player characters. Four of those (green, black, white, and blue) are only available if aHalloween eventhas been completed since release of the respective colour. Players who had linked their Twitch Prime account to their game account between 26 July and 19 September 2018 had early access to an additional purple skin colour. This skin colour was made available to everyone inan updateon 20 September 2018.
The other default clothing worn in these images are the "short" sleeves and "plain" bottoms.
The other default clothing worn in these images are the "short" sleeves and "plain" bottoms.
The other default clothing worn in these images are the "plain" top and "plain" bottoms.
The other default clothing worn in these images are the "plain" top and "plain" bottoms.
The other default clothing worn in these images are the "plain" top and "short" sleeves.
The other default clothing worn in these images are the "plain" top and "short" sleeves.
Players can have different colours for their torso and bottoms.
Players can choose from the basic andelvenstyles and have 6 different colour choices.
Players can choose either basic wristwear with metal cuffs, or plain wristwear.
The player's armour will no longer occasionally remain invisible after using the makeover interface.
Any aspect of the player's default appearance can now be changed via the makeover interface, via any of the vendors available for changing appearance.
Changing any aspect of the player's default appearance was made free of charge as part of theDiversity & Inclusion updates, including the services provided by Yrsa’s Shoe Shop in Rellekka, Thessalia's Shop in Varrock, the Hairdresser's in Falador, and the Makeover Mage.
White and black have been added to the skin colour options at the makeover mage.
