[Page: Melee]

The termmeleeis used to describe theAttack,StrengthandDefenceskills. Melee is one of the threecombat classesinOld School RuneScape. It involves usingswords,daggers, and otherweaponsto damage opponents, as well as wearing heavyarmourmade from various metals. Players who specialise in this type of combat are known as warriors.
Thecombat triangledictates that warriors are strong againstrangersbut weak againstmages. Melee's inability to attack from a distance means that a player may have a hard time fighting a ranger or mage, as they can make use ofsafespots. However, melee armour has a high resistance to ranged attacks, making warriors effective against rangers.
Meleecombathas threeattack types:crush,stab, andslash.
To the right of theInventorybutton (below the Inventory button in the mobile client), is theEquipmentmenu. From here, players can view theircombat Stats. Meleeweaponsincrease in accuracy as the minimumAttacklevel, required to wield the weapon, increases. The general trend is that Melee weapons of the same "tier" have the same accuracy value.melee armourdoes not hinder the accuracy of Melee weapons, nor does it improve Melee accuracy, aside from a few items such as thewarrior helm. However, wearing a piece of ranged or magic armour, instead of the melee counterpart, reduces the effectiveness of melee combat. Melee weapons and armour, certainamulets,capesandringsprovide a Melee attack bonus.
Players can also use Meleeprayerssuch asPietyto improve Melee combat.
Attackdetermines the accuracy of a player's Melee attacks and the types ofweaponsa player may wield. The higher theAttacklevel, the fewer misses a player will incur during Meleecombat. As Attack is a vital skill in Melee combat, increasing one's Attack level will increase one'scombat levelassociated with Melee.
Strengthis a Melee combat skill which increases the amount of damage a player can inflict in Melee combat by one point per level. Additionally,Strengthmay be required to wield certain weapons and armour, access someAgilityshortcuts, and complete severalquests.
Defenceis one of the primary combat skills that grants players protection in all forms of combat. The higher theDefencelevel, the fewer successful blows an opponent will land against the player. Defence is thus a vital skill for enduring attacks for long periods of time. A player's Defence level also determines theequipmentthey are able to wear, as most pieces ofarmouror other equipment have a Defence level requirement.
Meleeweaponsfit into many general categories. No type is superior to others, they vary inattack style, and speed/damage. In general, weapons of the same tier have the same damage per second ratio, with two-handed weapons dealing approximately 50% more damage per second.
Daggersare tied in speed with thescimitarandshortsword, and generally the cheapest of all Meleeweapons. They can also bepoisoned; thedragon dagger (p++)is a very popularspecial attackweapon in general fighting andPvP. A dagger is the first weapon that players cansmithupon gaining access to a newmetal.
Swordsare able to inflict more damage than adagger. A sword is a cheap alternative toscimitarsforruneand lowermetals.
Longswordsare slower thanscimitarsanddaggers, and the same speed asmacesbut they have higherStrengthbonuses than all three. Although their speed is slightly slower than scimitars, the extra Strength bonus andspecial attackfor thedragon longswordmake it comparable to them.
Two-handed swordsare the most powerful of basicweapons, but it sacrifices both speed and the ability to be used with theshieldslot, as the name suggests. The use of arune two-handed swordinplayer killingonfree-to-playworlds as a finishing weapon is common.
Scimitarsare very popularweaponsthat can hit just as fast as ashortswordordagger, and they deal slightly more damage than shortswords but less thanlongswords. Scimitars are, however, generally more expensive than the dagger and do not carry themace'sPrayer bonus. Thedragon scimitaris considered one of the most versatile combat weapons in the game.
Maceshit just as fast as a scimitar but usecrushandstab. Maces are unique among other weapons of a givenmetalin that they carry aPrayer bonus, which makes them useful for those who make heavy use ofPrayer, such as tanks. Thedragon maceis mainly used inplayer killingdue to itsspecial attack.
Warhammersare powerfulweaponsthat utilise mainlycrushattacking style. They are not commonly used because of their low speed and mediocreStrengthbonuses. They offer the same damage as theirslashingcousins, thebattleaxes.
Battleaxeshave slightly higherStrengthbonuses compared to awarhammerof the samemetaltype, and they use bothslashandcrushattack styles. They are stronger thanlongswordsyet slower. They are also weaker thantwo-handed swordsandspearsbut attacks faster than them.
Halberdsare two-handedmembers-onlyweaponsequally strong (and slow) astwo-handed swords. They have the unique ability to reach over small obstacles such as tables, fences, othersafespots, etc.
Spearsare two-handedmembers-onlyweaponsthat arestabbingequivalents oftwo-handed swords. They are still arguably the most flexible weapons in the game, as they are the only weapon to usestab,crush, andslashattack styles. Spears, however, only offerControlledandDefensiveattack styles. They can also bepoisonedexcept theZamorakian spear.
Hastaearespearsthat may be used with ashield. TheZamorakian hastaonStabworks ideal againstdragonsand bosses, such as theCorporeal Beast. Similar to their two-handed brethren, spears, they arepoison-able, except the Zamorakian hasta, and flexible, which means possessing theStab,Crush, andSlashstyles, and they also can only be used to trainControlledandDefensiveattacks.
Clawsaremembers-onlyslashingweaponsthat take up theshieldand theweaponslot. The speed of claws are equal to that ofdaggers, and they have higher bonuses.
Theabyssal whipis a very popularweaponamong higher levels that is functionally similar to ascimitarin terms of speed, and has a high strength bonus. However, players cannot use the whip to train Strength effectively as it only hasaccurate,controlled, anddefensivestyles and lacks theaggressive attack style.
Axesare intended forWoodcuttingandpickaxesforMining. Although they may be used for melee combat, it is not recommended as thedragon axeandpickaxeare very expensive, and they have low speed and accuracy.
Warriors have their own sets ofarmourmade out of various metals.Melee armouris resistant toRangedbut weak againstMagic.
Bronze armouris the weakest of all Melee armours and worn only by the newest of players, requiring no levels whatsoever (1Defence) and costing little.
Iron armouris slightly better than bronze, and it also "requires" level 1Defence. It is made fromiron bars.
Steel armouris slightly better than iron. Steel armour requires level 5Defenceto equip and may also besmithedfromsteel bars.
White armourdoes not offer great defensive bonuses, although better thansteel, but does offer decentPrayer bonuses. White armour, however, requires the completion of the questWanted!to equip. White armour may be bought fromSir Vyvinon the second floor ofFalador Castlewith sufficient White Knight rank, which is received from killingblack knights.
Black armourhas an evil and dangerous look, but is not any better thanwhite armour. It is, in fact, worse, not offering anyPrayer bonuses. Black armour, like white, cannot besmithed, only received as a drop or bought from several shops. It requires 10Defenceto wear, as does white armour.
Mithril armouris a medium-level metal armour, requiring 20Defenceto equip. Mithril armour offers decent bonuses for players who can just equip it. It is generally not used by higher levelled players.
Adamant armouris the second highestsmithablearmour and green in colour. It offers decent bonuses and is quite cheap and as such often used byplayer killerswho do not want to risk losing their own armour. It requires level 30Defenceto equip.
Rune armouris the best armour forfree-to-playthat does notdegradeand requires level 40Defenceto wear, although a smith wishing to make runite equipment needs at least level 85Smithing. Therune platebodyrequires completion ofDragon Slayer Ito be worn and can only be bought fromOziachor other players.
Dragon armouris one of the most sought-after armour sets and some of the dragon equipment is often traded for millions ofcoins. Dragon cannot besmithedby players and is only formembers. Dragon armour requires level 60Defenceto be worn.
Yak-hide armouris relatively weak, but valuable againstice trolls, as the armour lowers the maximum hit of the males. Its poor bonuses do not make the armour worth using very often.
Rock-shell armourhas the same stats asrune armour, aside from gloves and boots. It's not very widely used due to the difficulty to obtain and the option of better armour.
Bandos armouris a very strong set of armour, providing excellent defensive and strength bonuses. Bandos armour is one of the bestmelee armoursin the game.
Barrows armouris very strong and popular, and likewhite armour, theVerac's armour setprovides a smallPrayer bonus. Barrows armour needs to be repaired every 15 hours of combat, for a price.
Granite armouris a not so popular choice of armour, requiring not only aDefencelevel of 50 to wear, but also aStrengthlevel of 50 due to its weight. Thegranite bodyandhelmethave slightly better bonuses than theirrunecounterparts. Granite is rarely used due to its scarcity and weight.
3rd age melee equipmentare very rare rewards from hard and above clue scrolls. Its stats are higher than dragon, and requires 65 Defence, but is very expensive to purchase, and hard to obtain from clue scrolls.
Justiciar armouris the best melee armour for melee and ranged defensive bonuses, as well as possessing a powerfulset effect; when the full set is worn against monsters, it reduces damage taken according to the wearer's defence bonus to that particular style (except Magic). However, the armour is very expensive.
It also provides a notable Prayer bonus.
Torva armouris the best melee armour for melee strength bonus with strong defensive properties, being a straight upgrade to Bandos armour. The armour is extremely expensive.
Melee was more than twice as popular than magic and ranged combat combined, generating 59% of users votes in January 2007.[1]
Ashieldis a protective item wielded in the off-hand/shield slot. A shield adds substantial bonuses to armour when wielded.
Thesquare shieldhas adequate Melee andRangeddefence bonuses but provides less bonuses than thekiteshield. Unlike kiteshields, square shields are better for mages and archers.
Kiteshieldsoffer better defence thansquare shields, although, like most heavier armour, it is awkward to use in combination withMagicandRanged.
TheToktz-ket-xilrequires at least 60Defenceto wield. It cannot be made using any skills.
Theanti-dragon shielddoes not provide much by way of armour, but it is indispensable when fightingdragonsas it protects against most of their potentially devastatingdragonfire.
Thedragonfire shieldis a high-level piece of armour requiring 75Defence. It provides protection not only fromdragonfire, but also the icy breath of theSkeletal Wyvern.
Spirit shieldsare a range of shields available to members. Theelysian spirit shieldsimply has a 70% chance of nullifying damage you receive by 25%, although it lacks the +7Strengthbonus theDragonfire shieldgrants despite the shield being nearly as powerful as the Dragonfire shield in defensive bonuses without consideration of its magical effect. The basic spirit shield requires level 45Defenceand level 55Prayerto hold, theblessed onerequires 70 Defence and level 60 Prayer, thearcaneandspectral spirit shieldsboth require 75 Defence, 70 Prayer and 65Magic, and the Elysian require 75 Defence and 75 Prayer.
Atemporary skill boostis anything caused by an item or action that temporarily raises a player's level in one or more skills. It allows the player to do things above their current level.
Note: The numbers in parentheses are only required for the mixes.
