[Page: Minimap]

TheMinimap(also calledmini-mapinRuneScapedocumentation) is the area of the gameinterfacein the upper-right of the screen. It shows a bird's eye view of the player's surrounding area, with the player at the centre.
The minimap appears as an approximately circular area with a 19 square-length radius (see below). White lines represent walls, fences, etc., although a red marker indicates adooror other penetrable features. Coloured dots act as markers to identify nearby items, players, monsters andNPCs(see below). Certain buildings and features (such aswater sources) are marked byicons. Quest start points are also shown on the minimap.
The minimap does not function in areas such as theBarrowsandPuro-Puro.
Players can navigate by clicking directly on the minimap itself. A red flag will appear to show that the player is moving to the area clicked on; however, if one tries to enter a location that is inaccessible (due to a door being closed, or some other obstruction) then either nothing will happen, or the game will move your red flag to the nearest point that you can travel to.
The compass is on the top-left of the minimap, and shows the player what direction they're facing. It can be left clicked to face the camera north, or right clicked to face the camera north, east, south, or west.
There are no markers for followers.
The scale of the minimap is 4 pixels for eachgame tile, equivalent to that of theWorld Mapat 100% zoom level. When rotated to its default orientation, the minimap displays a circular area with a radius of 19 tile-lengths.
TheOld School RuneScapeminimap includes four icons, calleddata orbs, representing from top to bottom:Hitpoints,Prayer,Runenergy, andSpecial attackenergy. To the left of each icon is a number representing the player's remaining points in that category. In addition to these data orbs is a compass, and theXP dropsbutton. The compass indicates north, and rotates relative to the orientation of the game world, also called thecamera. The compass may be clicked to reset the camera to a northerly orientation. TheXP dropsbutton, when clicked, provides a small information box to the left of the minimap, showing totalexperience, or XP, earned. TheXP dropsbutton may be configured by right-clicking the button and selecting "Setup", allowing for configuration of many aspects of the XP information box, including position, size, setting trackers and goals for individual skills, etc.
TheHitpointsorb shows the player's remaining Hitpoints. The background of the icon drains as the player's Hitpoints are reduced, and the colour of the number changes from green to yellow to red. The background will turn green if the player ispoisoned, yellow if the player isdiseased, or dark green if the player isenvenomed. If the player has a cure for poison/disease in their inventory, they can click on the icon to automatically use one dose of the appropriate cure (antipoisonorRelicym's balm). If the player has different kinds of antipoison (such as regular antipoison andsuper antipoison), the highest level will be used (so in the above example, super antipoison would be used if the Hitpoints icon is clicked). The Hitpoints icon can also be clicked if the player is carrying aprayer bookfromThe Great Brain Robbery, in which case the book will be used to cure the poison at the expense of a few Prayer points. Regular forms of antipoison will take precedence over the prayer book however if both are present when clicking the icon.
Becomingpoisonedwill change the Hitpoints orb background into agreencolour.
Becomingenvenomedwill change the Hitpoints orb background into adark green-bluecolour.
Becomingdiseasedwill change the Hitpoints orb background into ayellowcolour.
ThePrayerorb shows the player's remainingPrayerpoints. As with the Hitpoints icon, the background will drain and the numbers will change colour as the player'sPrayeris reduced. The background will turn aquamarine if the player iscorrupted. Clicking this orb toggles the player's Quick-prayers (which are set by right-clicking the Prayer icon and choosing "Setup Quick-prayers"). If the player already has prayers on, turning Quick-prayers on will turn them off and turn the quick prayers. If a player toggles the icon again, the prayers turn off. If a player turns on prayers without toggling the prayer icon, they can turn the prayers off completely by toggling the icon two times quickly. This can be a good strategy to reduce prayer point usage.
Becomingcorruptedwill change the Prayer orb background into aaquamarinecolour.
TheEnergyorb shows the player's remainingrun energy. It can be clicked on to toggle running on or off. The background will also drain as energy is reduced.
TheSpecial Attackorb shows the player's remainingSpecial attack energy. The orb is grey by default, but becomes light blue if equipping a weapon with a special attack. After a player activates their weapon's special attack, this orb will drain and the background will change from light blue to black. Clicking this orb activates the special attack.
TheXP dropsorb shows the player's gained experience. Players can also right click and configure their XP drops.
Theworld mapshows the map ofGielinor, including underground areas.
Right clicking theWiki lookupicon displays two options:
It can be disabled inSettings.
TheStoreorb appears directly next to the special attack orb in resizable and mobile, or above the world map orb in fixed mode. On mobile, tapping it will open a screen in which players can buymembership. On desktop, clicking it will take players to themembershipstore, and right clicking it will take players to theirbondpouch. It is enabled by default forfree-to-playplayers.
It can be disabled inSettings.
TheActivity Adviserorb appears beneath the store orb; if the store orb is disabled, it will take its place. Clicking it opens theActivity Adviser.
It can be disabled in Settings.
This icon will appear below the minimap in the right corner of the screen if the player is in amulticombat area.
The currentattack stylewill be displayed below the minimap. This can be disabled in Settings.
Options on the minimap compass, used to point the camera in different directions, no longer affect the vertical angle.
The active area of the minimap where it overlaps with theWiki buttonhas been reduced to prevent unintended walk requests.
Themobile clientwill now remember whether or not your minimap was expanded the last time you logged out.
The special attack orb can now be used in PvP areas.
Players may now right-click the compass and set their camera to face East, West, and South, alongside the usual North option.
Data orbs have been visually updated.
The Hitpoints orb will now have a coloured background which changes colour if the player is poisoned, envenomed, diseased or a combination of the two. This is to help players that are on low Hitpoints be able to tell if they are under one of those effects.
Clicking on the Special attack data orb will now activate your special attack if you are wielding a weapon which has one.
Another data orb has been added beside the minimap to display your current special attack energy.
Clicking on the compass by your minimap will now cause your camera to face north.
Experience drops and the experience tracker were added.
You will no longer appear as a green dot on the minimap to players on your ignore list or if you set Private to Off.
The minimap orb buttons can no longer be clicked while the side-panel interfaces are unavailable, such as during certain cutscenes.
The orbs by the minimap can now be clicked to:
The minimap area of the gameframe has been updated with three new icons to show your health, prayer points and run energy.
The red flag on the minimap now updates to show your real destination after you've clicked on an inaccessible place.
