[Page: Prayer points]

Prayer pointsare a measure of the player's ability to useprayersand are measured in whole-point increments. A player's maximum, unboosted number of prayer points is equal to theirPrayerlevel. Prayer points can be restored a number of ways including praying at analtar, using arejuvenation pool(or better) in aplayer-owned house, or drinking a dose of aprayer potion.
The player's current prayer points are displayed on the game'sskills taband are displayed by theminimapif the Data orb option is toggled on. The number of prayer points the player has remaining is an indication of how long a player can use prayers before having to restore them. The player can left-click on the prayer orb to begin usingquick prayers, or the player can right-click on the prayer orb to set up their desired quick prayers.
The player's maximum prayer points can be raised permanently by levelling up the prayer skill or temporarily withboosts(e.g. by using theancient maceor theEldritch nightmare staff).
Prayer points start at the player'sPrayerlevel by default and are lowered as the player usesprayers. The rate at which prayer points go down decreases as the player'sprayer bonusgoes up. Each point of prayer bonus slows the drain rate by 3.33% of the regular drain rate of the prayer(s). A general formula for the time (interval) between dropping prayer points with a givenprayer bonusis:
intervalmodified=intervaloriginal×(1+bonus30)
Where the drain interval is the number of seconds per point (i.e. 1 point perxseconds). SeePrayer bonusfor more information. SeePrayer itemsfor information on which items giveprayer bonuses.
When the player's prayer points reach 0, their prayers will turn off, and they will have to use some method of restoring prayer points before prayers can be used again. Players should take care to ensure their prayer points do not run out in the middle ofcombator other dangerous situations.
Because of the integer (rather than continuous) nature of prayer points and the setup of the game'stiming systemintoticks, a player can avoid using prayer points by using a method known as "flicking" between game ticks. Using prayer flicking can be advantageous in certainmonster killingsituations such as theInfernoor theTzHaar Fight Cavewhere players can only bring in a limited number of prayer-restoring items (limited to oneinventoryworth).
Players can recharge their prayer points to maximum using an altar. There are several altars aroundGielinorwhich are identified with an altariconon theworld mapandminimap.
Players can also use consumable items such asprayer potions,super restores, orSanfew serumsto restore prayer points away from an altar. Certainweaponshavespecial attacksthat can be used to restore prayer points duringcombatincluding theancient mace,Saradomin godsword, andEldritch nightmare staff.
Praying at analtarwill now reset the timer on any Prayer Point draining effects.
