[Page: Quests]

Questsare groups of interrelated tasks, usually involving a story line, that can take anywhere from a few minutes to a few hours or even a few days to complete.
The starting locations for all quests are labelled with a blue compassiconon theminimap, and completing them can provide rewards ranging from experience and items, to access to new areas,minigamesandminiquests.
As of6 November2024, there are a total of 170 quests inOld School RuneScapewith 22freeand 148member-only quests. The first quest wasCook's Assistantand the most recently added quest isThe Curse of Arrav. A total of 321Quest pointsare rewarded for the completion of all quests, including 44 quest points from quests available to free players. Players who have obtained the maximum number of quest points are entitled to purchase and wear thequest point cape.
TheQuest journalon theinterfacehas the complete list of quests. Each quest's name is colour coded:
The quests requiring the highest skill level are:
The quests requiring the highest skill level are:
ManyOld School RuneScapequests are a part of a series of quests that share a common plot-line.
Progress in a quest series is made in a linear fashion, with each quest requiring the completion of the previous one. There are, however, a few exceptions to this progression, and are found usually when a quest is involved in multiple plot-lines.
The majority of the quest series are based out of a specific area, and their completion is often needed to access either more of that area or specific features within it. For example,West Ardougneas a whole is inaccessible unless at least some progress is made in theElf seriesof quests.
Asubquestis a part of another quest, which upon completion gives additional rewards as well asquest point(s). Subquests may take less time and require fewer items, although they may have additionalskillor quest requirements.
Miniquestsare smaller pieces of story and skill content that are not required for the quest point cape, but still tell stories similar to quests. Most miniquests are smaller in scale and shorter than a normal quest, but may have requirements stretching higher than normal quests or none at all. Many are connected to existing pieces of content or used to tie up loose ends from quests.
