[Page: Ranged]

Rangedis one of the threecombat classesinOld School RuneScape. It involves usingbows,crossbows, and thrownweaponsto damage opponents from a distance, andRanged armourcan mostly be made from animal hides. Players who specialise in thisskillare known as rangers or archers.
Thecombat triangledictates that rangers are strong against mages but weak against melee fighters.
The ability to attack from a distance means that a player cansafespota meleemonsterwhile fighting from safety. Keep in mind that some melee monsters have high Ranged Defence, so a high Ranged level may be needed.Crossbowsare useful against monsters with high Defence, as they are very accurate.
Players can toggle whether they want ammunition on the ground to automatically be equipped or remain in the inventory when picked up by talking to theRanged combat tutor.
There are three ranged equipment stats, two for attack (Ranged Attack andRanged Strength) and one for defence (Ranged Defence).
Ranged weapons(and frequentlyRanged armour) provide + Ranged Attack for accuracy, + Ranged Strength for max hit, and armour provides + Ranged Defence.
Note: In the case of crossbows and bows, the bows provide the Ranged Attack and the ammo provides Ranged Strength, while withdarts,knivesandthrowing axes(where the ammo is the weapon) both stats are provided by the weapon. In this case, ammo serves no purpose (thoughblessingsstill give aprayer bonushowever).
Ranged weapons have threecombat styles: accurate, rapid, and longrange. The accurate style provides an invisible +3 bonus to the player's Ranged level, increasing their accuracy and possibly increasing their max hit. The rapid style increases the player'sattack speedby 1, resulting in the highest damage per second of all the styles in almost all situations. The longrange style increasesattack rangeby 2, provides an invisible +3 bonus to the player'sDefencelevel, and splits earned exp between Ranged and Defence.
Furthermore, ammunitions have specific damage types similar to the melee's styles of Stab, Slash, and Crush, though it only applies to monsters. For example, some monsters have less defence against heavy ammunition than light and standard ones, and would be preferred in such encounters. A list of some monsters with weakened defence against a particular ammunition type can be found on thisnews post.
Throwing knivesThrowing axes
Boltsthat are tipped withgemscan be enchanted for a wide variety of passive effects, each of which has a small chance of activating when an enemy is damaged by the bolt.
RequiresBarbarian training.
Upon completing any of the following quests, players may choose to allocate experience to Ranged. These rewards usually come in the form of items, such as lamps or books, and are independent of any experience rewards directly received for completing the quest.
