[Page: Energy]

Energy(sometimes calledrun energy,running energy, orstamina) allows players to run rather than walk around the landscape. Players move one tile pergame tickwhile walking but move two tiles per game tick while running, making running twice as fast as walking. Run energy depletes while running, and turning on Run is only possible while a player has 1% energy or more.
Each player has at fewest 0 units of energy and up to 10,000 units of energy, and the game only displays the percentage of this energy. For instance, the game shows 100% when a player has the full 10,000 units of energy and 0% when a player has fewer than 100 units of energy. The energy percentage is displayed in the game'sSettingsscreen and by theMinimapif the Data orb option is enabled. Players can toggle this option to run everywhere they go, or they can run to one particular destination by holding down the Control key when they click to move, if run energy is toggled to walk. (SeeGame controls.)
Energy starts at 100% by default, but decreases as the player runs around. When a player's energy reaches 0%, their "run" option is automatically switched off. Moving to an adjacent tile through walking will not drain energy, even if Run is turned on.
The rate at which energy depletes grows with theweightof theitemsthe player is carrying (i.e. items in theinventoryand any items they have equipped). Players with negative weight (which is possible with weight reducing equipment) will have their energy deplete at the same rate as players with zero weight. Similarly, players with weight greater than 64kg (whether 64.1kg or as much as 1024.2kg) will have their energy deplete at the same rate as players with 64kg.
The formula for run energy units (where 10,000 units equals 100% run energy) lost pergame tickran by default is
where theclamp[0,64]function restricts the weight to be between 0kg and 64kg.
Therefore, it will always take between 45 and 90 seconds for run energy to be fully depleted from 100%.
Run energy lost per tick can be modified by two effects beyond weight: having astamina potioneffect active or equipping aRing of endurancewith at least 500 charges. With the stamina potion effect, a player's run energy depletion rate is reduced to⌊.3L(weight)⌋. With a charged ring of endurance equipped, a player's run energy depletion rate is reduced to⌊.85L(weight)⌋.
Furthermore, on the tick that a player's available energy hits 0 while running, their energy will only deplete by their current energy. For instance, if a player has 1 energy unit and attempts to run, they will run and only have their energy deplete by 1 to 0.
Besides running, there are some other activities that use energy or can otherwise lower a player's energy in large chunks.
Energy gradually recovers up to a maximum of 100% or 10,000 energy nearly any time that the player is not running (i.e. walking or standing still). Run energy tends to not recover when the player is doing something else. For example, run energy will not regenerate while the player is running, crossing an agility obstacle, or flying on aMagic carpet. Run energy also will not regenerate while the player is logged out.
The rate at which energy recovers generally increases with the player'sAgilitylevel. Notice that the energy recovery ratedoes notincrease with each and every individual level increase. For instance, at level 9 Agility, a player's energy will not recover faster than if they had level 1 agility. Therefore if a player intends to pause Agility training on their account indefinitely, it is optimal to train their Agility level to some multiple of 10 (e.g., pausing Agility training at level 20, 30, 40, 50, etc.).
The amount of energy regenerated pergame tickby default is
whereagilityis the player's agility level.
Run energy regenerated per tick can be modified by only one effect beyond agility level. With the fullgracefulset equipped, the energy regenerated per tick is modified to⌊1.3R(a)⌋. Without the full set equipped, the amount of run energy regenerated is modified according to the information in thegracefulpage.
Certain activities or actions will fully restore a player's energy and other attributes, these include:
Energy can be recovered instantly in a number of ways:
Energy can be lost instantly through these items.
A new option has been added that allows the player to automatically re-enable run after it has regenerated to a certain threshold.
Additional options have been added to the Settings menu under 'Ctrl+Click to invert run mode'.
Run energy is now restored at the end of the tutorial.
Toggle run mode is now remembered between logins.
Holding CTRL to run now functions correctly when clicking on an object or NPC.
This content became permanently available with the launch ofRuneScape 2.
This content was added to theRuneScape 2Beta.
