[Page: Settings]

Settingsis the screen that lets players change various settings, such as the brightness of the game client, whether or notchat effectsdisplay, whether to accept aid or not, the volume of the music and sound effects, and much more.
While the settings tab allows players to quickly change their Control, Audio, and Display settings, players can change or toggle additional settings via the main settings interface, accessed by clicking the "All Settings" button at the bottom of the tab.
The primary settings interface features a toggle to expand or collapse information, a search bar to quickly find specific settings, and a sub-list that organises settings by category.
Note:These options are currently only available on theMobile ClientandNew Official Client.
Note:These options are currently only available onMobileandSteam clients.
Players can choose the colours of various text in the chatbox, depending on whether they have set their chatbox to be opaque or transparent in the Advanced Display Settings. They can also reset the chat colours to the default colours, or use a custom input of RGB and hex colour codes.
Players can choose 29 other colours for each chat type:
The Keybinds settings allows players can choose which F-keys will take the player to a certain side-panel.
Note:These options are currently only available onSteam clients.
Players can choose to enable the Modified stats overlay, which can show them their boosted or unboosted stats in an overlay.
Note:These options are currently only available onSteam clients.
Players can choose to enable the buff bar, allowing them to know which items or spells are on cooldown, the duration of certainpotionseffects, etc.
The Teleports settings control messages forteleportation spells,magic tablets, and levers that take players to theWilderness. Players can individually choose which warnings to enable or disable.
For teleports, this includes:
For magic tablets, this includes:
For teleport levers, this includes:
The remaining settings are accessed via the Settings side-panel, rather than the main settings interface.
The house options contain various options used in customising yourplayer-owned house. It also shows how many rooms are in your house.
An optional warning has been added when 'using' items on anexplorer's ringto castAlchemy spells.
Your game settings will now be automatically adjusted based on your choice when asked onTutorial Islandwhether you’re a "Beginner", "Returning", or "Experienced" player.
An option has been added to disable the account's 'last seen' tracking if it is in aclan.
A "Minimap" subsection for minimap related settings has been added to the Interface section of the menu.
The Loot Tracker no longer counts dropped bones twice.
A selection menu has been added to the audio settings for selecting the sound played when a player is hit in combat.
The brightness sliders in the settings menu and settings tab are now in sync.
Settings to togglebolt pouch,seed box,tackle box,essence pouch, orherb sackbeing emptied upon death behaviours have been added.
A new setting to set the maximum number of items shown on Ground Items list has been added.
XP tracker overlay's toggle has been removed. It instead depends on popout panel toggle
Players can now toggle a ‘Make-x’ interface for fletchingdarts.
A new Gameplay setting has been added to allow players to disable thelevel-upinterface.
Two new options have been added allowing players to have permanently banned and muted accounts removed from theirIgnore list.
A new option has been added to the Settings menu which allows players to toggle whether theTradeoption is shown on other players.
More informative warnings have been added for High-Risk worlds when entering the Wilderness via the Wilderness ditch, Ferox Enclave or canoes.
AutomaticArrowequipping andRune pouchstorage can now be turned on in the Settings menu.
Players can now enable warnings when a buy or sell offer is too high or low in the Grand Exchange.
Players can now change the default destination on the deep Wilderness teleportlevertoEdgevilleorArdougne.
Camera effects found insideBaba Yaga's house,Barrows, and theFishing Trawlerminigame can now be toggled in the settings menu.
All settings for in-game features and overlays previously only available on the Steam client are now also available on theMobile client.
An option to prevent getting skulled has been added.
Various settings have been added to theSteam client, to note a few:
An option for desktop players to display a bond button on their interface has been added to settings.
Settings have been re-organised. Various settings have been added to the Steam client, to note a few:
Multiple settings have been added to the Gameplay section to accompany theCombat Achievementsrelease.
More increments on the volume and brightness sliders have been added.
Various settings have been added to the Steam client, to note a few:
Chat colour customisation options have been added to the Settings menu.
A toggle to change the sidepanel border has been added to the Settings menu.
A typo has been fixed in the Settings menu.
The option text for the brightness control in the Settings side-panel now refers to brightness, rather than music volume.
Players may now opt out of dropping supplies upon death via toggling it in the Settings menu.
An option to change the fog colour within Last Man Standing has been added.
An additional notch has been added to the maximum zoom setting to account for the maximum camera zoom distance increasing.
A problem where attack options were being hidden has been resolved.
Attack options now default to hidden until your chosen setting is loaded to avoid left-click attack working upon logging in with slower connections.
The attack action options have been separated into two settings for players and NPCs. An additional option for hiding the attack option has also been added for both players and NPCs.
Using ESC to close interfaces now functions with the rune pouch and bank deposit box interfaces.
Resizable mode has been added.
A 'buy' button has been added to the Membership Bonds interface to help players find their way to the correct page.
Filtering chat will now filter both what you see in the chatbox and what is displayed over the heads of other players.
The middle mouse-button can now be used to rotate the game camera. For players who'd prefer to use that button for clicking instead, there's a new button on the Options menu to restore the previous behaviour. The volume controls have moved to a separate Audio Options panel to accommodate this.
The player-owned house options menu now has a new toggle button, allowing you to have your POH rendered with its doors already open.
An extra button has been added to the options menu, allowing you to disable the profanity filter.
Display options interface
Audio options interface
Chat options interface
Controls options interface
Area Sound
Adjust Screen Brightness
Audio
Fixed mode
Music Volume
Resizeable mode
Sound Effect
Toggle Chat Effects
Toggle Data orbs
Toggle hide private chat
Toggle 'Remaining XP'
Toggle number of mouse buttons
Toggle roof-removal
Toggle Split private chat
Toggle Stones arrangement
Toggle Transparent chatbox
Toggle transparent side panel
Mouse scroll zooming
Display
Prayer tooltips
Special attack tooltips
Chatbox scrollbar
Toggle Wiki lookup
Hitsplat tinting
Toggle Health Overlay
