[Page: Strength]

Strengthis a player's power inmeleecombat. As a player raises their Strength level, they can deal more damage against opponents. A high Strength level is often favoured by players over theirAttacklevel because it raisesmax hit, helping to deal more damage compared to training Attack or Defence.
Players may receive Strengthexperienceduringcombat, and the amount of experience gained is dependent on theattack stylebeing used. Of the fourmeleeattack styles available, Strength experience is only awarded when fighting in the aggressive or controlled stances.
When fighting in the aggressive stance,4*xStrength experience is granted per hit, wherexis the amount of damage dealt. Fighting using the controlled stance, however, grants1.33*xStrength experience per hit, wherexis the amount of damage dealt. For example, a player who hits a 1 would receive 4 Strength experience when fighting in the aggressive stance and 1.33 Strength experience when fighting in the controlled stance. The amount of experience received when fighting in the controlled stance is calculated in the same way that experience awarded to theHitpointsskill is calculated.
The difference between these two stances is that the aggressive stance solely provides experience for the Strength and Hitpointsskills, whereas the controlled stance distributes experience equally among Strength,Attack,Defence, and Hitpoints. A player who hits a 1 would receive 1.33 experience in each one of these skills when in the controlled stance.
In order to efficiently gainexperiencein Strength, players must choose theaggressiveattack style. Fighting aggressively grants players an invisible +3 Strength bonus (as detailed below), meaning players will hit for higher levels of damage than they would if they were fighting accurately or defensively.
Almost allweapons, as well as some other equipment, grant players aStrength bonus. This bonus, represented as a single numerical value, represents the sum of all bonus Strength from worn equipment. A +1 increase in Strength bonus IS NOT equivalent to +1 Strength skill, but is rather an indicator of the ability of weapons andarmourto increase a player's maximum damage.  For example, at a Strength skill of 20, going from 0 to 16 total Strength bonus will result in an increase of 1 to a player'smax hit. To increase max hit by 1 more based solely on Strength bonus, a Strength bonus of 39 would be needed. Also note that increasing your Strength bonus makes it so that you require less overall Strength to achieve a greater max hit. SeeCalculating your maximum melee hitfor more details on how Strength bonus influences the max hit calculation.
Generally speaking, more powerful weapons liketwo-handed swordshave a significantly higher Strength bonus than weaker weapons likedaggersmade of the same metal. Similarly, the stronger the metal, the higher the Strength bonus.  For example,rune weaponstend to have higher Strength bonus thanmithril weapons, which tend to have a higher Strength bonus thaniron weapons.
In addition to the normal Strength bonuses that come fromweapons, there are some other wearable items that also contribute to total Strength bonus. They are as follows:
Blue moon helm,Eclipse moon helm
Shayzien gloves (2),Crab claw
In order to wield equipment, anAttackorDefencelevel is usually required. In some specific cases, a Strength level requirement is also in place. Notable examples are as follows:
RequiresBarbarian training.
RequiresBarbarian training.
(Miniquest)
In addition, there is a chance that theObservatory Questmay award 875Strength experience.
Upon completing any of the following quests, players may choose to allocate experience to Strength. These rewards usually come in the form of items, such as lamps or books, and are independent of any experience rewards directly received for completing the quest.
The Strength skillguide now correctly states that you can access the Bandos room.
Fixed a typo in the strength skill guide.
