[Page: Server]

Aserver,worldorWis a computer, or part of a computer, which hostsRuneScape. Servers are maintained byJagexand are distributed across the real world. Each members world allows 2000 players to be connected at once while free-to-play worlds have a limit of 1000 players at once.
This is the list of worlds and their respective activities. There are currently 167 normal members worlds and 59 free-to-play worlds.
For the most part, events that occur in one world will not affect any otherRuneScapeworld. For example, buying an item in ashopwill only decrease the inventory for the shop in that world. Shop inventory, characterrespawns,item respawns, and resource regeneration (e.g.ores,trees) are all managed individually for each server. Additionally, players (along with chat messages) contained in one world will not be visible to players in another world.
One exception to this rule is the timing of certain events. For example, whentackling organised crime, each world will consistently spawn and despawn the gang meetings at the same times and locations as the other worlds on that server.[clarification needed]
Because each world has its ownshopinventory, players will often change worlds rapidly to buy from one store many different times. Also, players often switch worlds to find more favourable conditions (e.g. more populated) forminigames,player killing, ortrading. This is known asworld hopping.
The only possible ways of interaction betweenRuneScapeworlds isprivate chatusing theFriends Listor throughClan Chat.
When a user logs off of a world, all settings particular to that character are saved to the player's accountprofilein a global database. Therefore, when logging into a different world, the character'sskills,inventory, etc. will be restored to the same state, regardless of which server the character last logged onto.
In August 2007,Jagexadded a new column to the world select screen highlighting those worlds with associated activities, especially those team-based events likeTrouble Brewing, to make it easier to find people with similar ideas.
In theupdateof July 52018, Jagex removed the themes of several worlds where the theme was unused or no longer necessary. This was only a text change in the world selection screen, with no impact on the actual worlds.
Skill total worlds are worlds that are locked to accounts that do not meet the requiredTotal levelto enter.Free-to-playskill total worlds calculate total levels fromfree-to-playskillsalone and do not acknowledgemembersskills, meaning players require a cumulative total of 500 or 750 in free-to-play skills (total level of 508 or 758 respectively if all member's skills are 1) to enter those worlds. Members skill total worlds were added August 20, 2015[1]. The free-to-play skill total worlds were added on September 22, 2016 after a suggestion campaign by user Yeet Lmao.[2]
On these worlds, players may attack each other almost everywhere and are prevented from teleporting for a few seconds after using a special attack in PvP combat on PvP or Bounty Hunter worlds. This is done to prevent players from using their special attack on a player and immediately teleporting away without consequence. Players are also prevented from teleporting while their special attack bar is activated on these worlds.
Normally some PvP worlds are affected by the PvP world rotation, changing when they are available inone weekintervals. This is to reduce the number of worlds to make each more active, while changing locations to provide fairerlagto players across the world.
Note:The rotation displayed may not update immediately following game updates.Click here to clear the cache and force an update.
This rotation is currentlyactivefor the next 1 days.
This rotation is currentlyinactive.
High Risk worlds(worlds 365, 474, 533, PvP worlds 548 and 579) are worlds where players will loseallitems on death due to having a special skull status over the head () at all times. The Protect Item prayer does not work on these worlds. Going into these worlds can be arisk, but good way tomake moneyif you have a highCombat levelwith goodarmourandweaponsand are proficient inplayer-versus-playercombat.It is strongly recommended that you only take items that you are willing to lose!Also, note that World 365, 474, and 533 aresafe worlds unless you go into theWildernessas they are notPvPworlds.
Upon killing any opponent, you will always get the items they were wearing and carrying, unless the item is (or was)untradeable, in which case will usually turn into a stack ofgold coinsaccording to its value.
A warning is shown on attempting to login to a high-risk server from the login screen. If using theWorld Switcherinstead, a confirmation will appear. Upon logging into aPvP world, a chat message will appear sayingThis is a PvP World. Players may attack you once you leave this safe area.
The PvP world rotation has been turned back on.
Worlds in both rotas are available until 8 January 2025.
The PvP world rotation has been turned back on.
Worlds in both rotas are available until 10 January 2024.
Worlds in both rotas are available until 11 January 2023.
The PvP world rotation has been turned back on.
The PvP world rotation was turned off for world deployment system maintenance. All PvP worlds are available simultaneously.[3]
Worlds in both rotas are available until 5 January 2022.
On high-risk PvP worlds, death no longer removes the Special Skull icon.
Added four skill total worlds that require a minimum of 1250+, 1500+, 1750+, or 2000+total levelin order to access.
Due to an influx offree-to-playplayers, 3 members worlds (301, 326 and 335) have been converted to F2P.
Resources and monsters now spawn at a standardised rate throughout all worlds regardless of how many people are currently online instead of based on how many people were online on that world, where more players meant a faster respawn.
