Fremennik Diary
Fremennik Diary Released 5 March 2015 ( Update ) Area(s) Rellekka , Lunar Isle , Jatizso , Neitiznot , Keldagrim , God Wars Dungeon , Troll Stronghold Members Yes Item reward Boots Lamp XP rewards 2,500 7,500 15,000 50,000 Taskmaster(s) Thorodin League region Fremennik ✓
The Fremennik Diary is a set of achievement diaries whose tasks revolve around areas within the Fremennik Province , such as Neitiznot and Jatizso , Miscellania and Etceteria , the God Wars Dungeon , Lunar Isle , and Waterbirth Island .
Several skill, quest and item requirements are needed to complete all tasks. Unless stated otherwise, temporary skill boosts can be used to meet the skill requirements.
Rewards can be claimed from Thorodin just south of Rellekka . The previous tiers of a diary must be completed to claim rewards of the next tier.
Contents
1 Overview
2 Easy 2.1 Rewards
2.1 Rewards
3 Medium 3.1 Rewards
3.1 Rewards
4 Hard 4.1 Rewards
4.1 Rewards
5 Elite 5.1 Rewards
5.1 Rewards
6 Changes
7 Trivia
8 References
Overview [ edit | edit source ]
Skill requirements 20 20 5 23 15 15 11 125+ Quest requirements The Fremennik Trials Additional requirements Started The Giant Dwarf Started Troll Stronghold
Skill requirements 20 20 5 23 15 15 11 125+
Quest requirements The Fremennik Trials
Additional requirements Started The Giant Dwarf Started Troll Stronghold
Skill requirements 40 35 50 30 42 47 37 35 331+ Quest requirements Eagles' Peak Horror from the Deep Additional requirements Near full completion of Between a Rock... Partial completion of Olaf's Quest Started Fairytale II - Cure a Queen
Skill requirements 40 35 50 30 42 47 37 35 331+
Quest requirements Eagles' Peak Horror from the Deep
Additional requirements Near full completion of Between a Rock... Partial completion of Olaf's Quest Started Fairytale II - Cure a Queen
Skill requirements 70 32 60 40 66 75 61 49 72 25 56 20 55 691+ Quest requirements Eadgar's Ruse The Fremennik Isles Lunar Diplomacy Throne of Miscellania Additional requirements Started The Giant Dwarf
Skill requirements 70 32 60 40 66 75 61 49 72 25 56 20 55 691+
Quest requirements Eadgar's Ruse The Fremennik Isles Lunar Diplomacy Throne of Miscellania
Additional requirements Started The Giant Dwarf
Skill requirements 70 70 80 70 80 82 83 551+ Quest requirements The Fremennik Isles Lunar Diplomacy Troll Stronghold Additional requirements Defeat all the Dagannoth Kings . Defeat all the God Wars Dungeon generals.
Skill requirements 70 70 80 70 80 82 83 551+
Quest requirements The Fremennik Isles Lunar Diplomacy Troll Stronghold
Additional requirements Defeat all the Dagannoth Kings . Defeat all the God Wars Dungeon generals.
Easy [ edit | edit source ]
Items required Bird snare 1000 more coins or a Waterbirth teleport tablet if The Fremennik Trials have not been completed yet Tiara mould Any pickaxe Bucket Climbing boots Any axe Tinderbox Weaponry
Bird snare
1000 more coins or a Waterbirth teleport tablet if The Fremennik Trials have not been completed yet
Tiara mould
Any pickaxe
Bucket
Climbing boots
Any axe
Tinderbox
Weaponry
Skills needed 23 Crafting 15 Firemaking 11 Hunter 20 Mining 20 Smithing 5 Thieving 15 Woodcutting
23 Crafting
15 Firemaking
11 Hunter
20 Mining
20 Smithing
5 Thieving
15 Woodcutting
Quests required The Fremennik Trials Started The Giant Dwarf Started Troll Stronghold Death Plateau
The Fremennik Trials
Started The Giant Dwarf
Started Troll Stronghold Death Plateau
Death Plateau
Task Requirements 1. Catch a cerulean twitch (found north of Fairy ring code D K S ). 11 Hunter Bird snare You can complete the medium task of catching a Snowy knight ( 35 ) and the hard task of catching a Sabre-toothed Kyatt ( 55 ) while you are here. 2. Change your boots at Yrsa's Shoe Store . Completion of The Fremennik Trials You can alternatively browse her regular clothing store to complete the task, no purchase necessary. 3. Kill 5 Rock Crabs . Weaponry Note: Killing rock crabs in Waterbirth Island / Dungeon counts for this task. However, giant rock crabs and rock lobsters do not count. 4. Craft a tiara from scratch in Rellekka . Mine silver ore from the Rellekka mine , then use it on the furnace in the west of the city. Completion of The Fremennik Trials 23 Crafting , 20 Mining and 20 Smithing Tiara mould and any pickaxe You can mine coal in the silver mine to complete the medium task. Completing any other tasks will reset this tasks progress if it is not completed. 5. Browse the Stonemason's shop (in west Keldagrim , right-click him to Trade ). Players can use fairy ring code D K S to teleport right next to the entrance to Keldagrim. Started The Giant Dwarf 6. Collect 5 snape grass on Waterbirth Island . You can drop and pick up the same snape grass five times. Completion of The Fremennik Trials (for free travel via Jarvald ), 1000 coins or a Waterbirth teleport tablet 7. Steal from the Keldagrim crafting or baker's stall (located in the central building of Eastern Keldagrim ) Started The Giant Dwarf 5 Thieving 8. Fill a bucket with water at the Rellekka well (near the entrance of the town). Bucket There's a bucket of milk slightly north from the well. 9. Enter the Troll Stronghold . Completion of the Troll Stronghold and Death Plateau Climbing boots 10. Chop and burn some oak logs in the Fremennik Province (near the house portal ). 15 Woodcutting and 15 Firemaking Any axe and a tinderbox
11 Hunter
Bird snare
You can complete the medium task of catching a Snowy knight ( 35 ) and the hard task of catching a Sabre-toothed Kyatt ( 55 ) while you are here.
Completion of The Fremennik Trials
You can alternatively browse her regular clothing store to complete the task, no purchase necessary.
Weaponry
Note: Killing rock crabs in Waterbirth Island / Dungeon counts for this task. However, giant rock crabs and rock lobsters do not count.
Completion of The Fremennik Trials
23 Crafting , 20 Mining and 20 Smithing
Tiara mould and any pickaxe
You can mine coal in the silver mine to complete the medium task.
Completing any other tasks will reset this tasks progress if it is not completed.
Players can use fairy ring code D K S to teleport right next to the entrance to Keldagrim.
Started The Giant Dwarf
You can drop and pick up the same snape grass five times.
Completion of The Fremennik Trials (for free travel via Jarvald ), 1000 coins or a Waterbirth teleport tablet
Started The Giant Dwarf
5 Thieving
Bucket
There's a bucket of milk slightly north from the well.
Completion of the Troll Stronghold and Death Plateau
Climbing boots
15 Woodcutting and 15 Firemaking
Any axe and a tinderbox
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Fremennik sea boots 1 One free teleport to Rellekka every day
One free teleport to Rellekka every day
Antique lamp worth 2,500 experience in any skill above 30
Peer the Seer will act as a bank deposit box
Fossegrimen will give your enchanted lyre an extra charge when making a sacrifice
Fossegrimen will permanently enchant your lyre for a discounted price of 800 raw sharks , raw bass , raw manta rays , and raw sea turtles
Medium [ edit | edit source ]
Items required Combat gear Spade Rope Any pickaxe Dramen or lunar staff Butterfly net Butterfly jar Pet rock 30,000 coins if you have not yet built a menagerie in your house 4 oak planks , saw and hammer to build a pet house in the menagerie Rune thrownaxe or help from another player Gold helmet (Recommended) Food
Combat gear
Spade
Rope
Any pickaxe
Dramen or lunar staff
Butterfly net
Butterfly jar
Pet rock
30,000 coins if you have not yet built a menagerie in your house 4 oak planks , saw and hammer to build a pet house in the menagerie
4 oak planks , saw and hammer to build a pet house in the menagerie
Rune thrownaxe or help from another player
Gold helmet
(Recommended) Food
Skills needed 35 Agility 37 Construction 30 Defence 35 Hunter 40 Mining 47 Slayer 50 Smithing 42 Thieving
35 Agility
37 Construction
30 Defence
35 Hunter
40 Mining
47 Slayer
50 Smithing
42 Thieving
Quests required Eagles' Peak Started Fairytale II - Cure a Queen Fairytale I - Growing Pains Lost City Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost Priest in Peril Started Olaf's Quest The Fremennik Trials Mostly completed Between a Rock... Dwarf Cannon Fishing Contest Horror from the Deep Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl
Eagles' Peak
Started Fairytale II - Cure a Queen Fairytale I - Growing Pains Lost City Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost Priest in Peril
Fairytale I - Growing Pains
Lost City
Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost Priest in Peril
The Restless Ghost
Priest in Peril
Started Olaf's Quest The Fremennik Trials
The Fremennik Trials
Mostly completed Between a Rock... Dwarf Cannon Fishing Contest
Dwarf Cannon
Fishing Contest
Horror from the Deep Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl
Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl
Task Requirements 1. Slay a brine rat . Partial completion of Olaf's Quest 47 Slayer Weaponry and a spade 2. Travel to the Snowy Hunter Area via Eagle . Completion of Eagles' Peak Rope 3. Mine some coal in Rellekka . Completion of The Fremennik Trials 30 Mining Any pickaxe 4. Steal from the Rellekka fish stalls . Completion of The Fremennik Trials 42 Thieving 5. Travel to Miscellania by fairy ring ( C I P ). Completion of The Fremennik Trials and having started Fairytale II - Cure a Queen Dramen staff or lunar staff 6. Catch a Snowy knight (just north-west of D K S ). 35 Hunter Butterfly net and butterfly jar (not required if caught barehanded, but this requires 45 Hunter ) 7. Pick up your pet rock from your POH menagerie . Use your pet rock on a pet house inside your house, then retrieve it off the ground, not in "building mode" Partial completion of The Fremennik Trials 37 Construction and materials to build a pet house Pet rock 8. Visit the Lighthouse from Waterbirth Island . Study the dangerous route on the Waterbirth Island page before attempting this. Suggested to teleport to Waterbirth Island to start this task so you can complete a Hard Diary Task at the same time. Completion of Horror from the Deep and having started The Fremennik Trials Pet rock and a rune thrownaxe , or help from another player to open the doors in the Waterbirth Island Dungeon , or 85 Agility for the rocks shortcut (Waterbirth Island) Suggested to teleport to Waterbirth Island to complete a hard task at the same time: Completion of Lunar Diplomacy 72 Magic and means to cast Waterbirth teleport ( ) 9. Mine some gold at the Arzinian Mine (achieved during Between a Rock... ). Partial completion of Between a Rock... 40 Mining Any pickaxe and the gold helmet
Partial completion of Olaf's Quest
47 Slayer
Weaponry and a spade
Completion of Eagles' Peak
Rope
Completion of The Fremennik Trials
30 Mining
Any pickaxe
Completion of The Fremennik Trials
42 Thieving
Completion of The Fremennik Trials and having started Fairytale II - Cure a Queen
Dramen staff or lunar staff
35 Hunter
Butterfly net and butterfly jar (not required if caught barehanded, but this requires 45 Hunter )
Partial completion of The Fremennik Trials
37 Construction and materials to build a pet house
Pet rock
Suggested to teleport to Waterbirth Island to start this task so you can complete a Hard Diary Task at the same time.
Completion of Horror from the Deep and having started The Fremennik Trials
Pet rock and a rune thrownaxe , or help from another player to open the doors in the Waterbirth Island Dungeon , or 85 Agility for the rocks shortcut (Waterbirth Island)
Suggested to teleport to Waterbirth Island to complete a hard task at the same time:
Completion of Lunar Diplomacy
72 Magic and means to cast Waterbirth teleport ( )
Partial completion of Between a Rock...
40 Mining
Any pickaxe and the gold helmet
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Fremennik sea boots 2
Antique lamp worth 7,500 experience in any skill above 40
+10% chance of gaining approval in Managing Miscellania
Fossegrimen will permanently enchant your lyre for a discounted price of 600 raw sharks , raw bass , raw manta rays , and raw sea turtles
Hard [ edit | edit source ]
Items required Bronze nails Rope Means to cast Trollheim and Waterbirth teleport (2 fire runes , 3 law runes , 2 astral runes and a water rune ) Teasing stick Knife Any pickaxe Optionally an axe , rake , harpoon and/or lobster pot Hammer Vial of water Cadantine White berries
Bronze nails
Rope
Means to cast Trollheim and Waterbirth teleport (2 fire runes , 3 law runes , 2 astral runes and a water rune )
Teasing stick
Knife
Any pickaxe
Optionally an axe , rake , harpoon and/or lobster pot
Hammer
Vial of water
Cadantine
White berries
Skills needed 32 Agility 20 Construction 61 Crafting 40 Defence 49 Firemaking 25 Fletching (can kill an NPC instead of Fletching the required item) 66 Herblore 55 Hunter 72 Magic 70 Mining 60 Smithing 75 Thieving 56 Woodcutting
32 Agility
20 Construction
61 Crafting
40 Defence
49 Firemaking
25 Fletching (can kill an NPC instead of Fletching the required item)
66 Herblore
55 Hunter
72 Magic
70 Mining
60 Smithing
75 Thieving
56 Woodcutting
Quests required Started The Giant Dwarf The Fremennik Isles The Fremennik Trials Throne of Miscellania Heroes' Quest Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I Druidic Ritual Eadgar's Ruse Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Lunar Diplomacy Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion
Started The Giant Dwarf
The Fremennik Isles The Fremennik Trials
The Fremennik Trials
Throne of Miscellania Heroes' Quest Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I Druidic Ritual
Heroes' Quest Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I Druidic Ritual
Shield of Arrav
Lost City
Merlin's Crystal
Dragon Slayer I
Druidic Ritual
Eadgar's Ruse Troll Stronghold Death Plateau
Troll Stronghold Death Plateau
Death Plateau
Lunar Diplomacy Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion
Lost City
Rune Mysteries
Shilo Village Jungle Potion
Jungle Potion
Task Requirements 1. Teleport to Trollheim . Completion of Eadgar's Ruse 61 Magic and means to cast Trollheim teleport ( ) 2. Catch a Sabre-toothed kyatt . 55 Hunter Teasing stick , logs and a knife 3. Mix a Super defence potion in the Fremennik Province ( only in or near Rellekka ). 66 Herblore Cadantine potion (unf) and white berries 4. Steal from the Keldagrim Gem Stall . Started The Giant Dwarf 75 Thieving 5. Craft a Neitiznot shield on Neitiznot . Partial completion of The Fremennik Isles 56 Woodcutting Hammer , rope , a bronze nail and 2 arctic pine logs . 6. Mine 5 adamantite ores on Jatizso . Started The Fremennik Isles 70 Mining Any pickaxe 7. Obtain 100% support from your kingdom subjects. Partial completion of Throne of Miscellania Rake , pickaxe , axe , harpoon and/or lobster pot , depending on how you plan to gain support. 8. Teleport to Waterbirth Island . Completion of Lunar Diplomacy 72 Magic and means to cast Waterbirth teleport ( ) 9. Obtain the Blast Furnace Foreman 's permission to use the Blast Furnace for free. Started The Giant Dwarf 60 Smithing If you are having trouble completing the task, try hopping worlds and speaking to the foreman again, avoiding the pay option.
Completion of Eadgar's Ruse
61 Magic and means to cast Trollheim teleport ( )
55 Hunter
Teasing stick , logs and a knife
66 Herblore
Cadantine potion (unf) and white berries
Started The Giant Dwarf
75 Thieving
Partial completion of The Fremennik Isles
56 Woodcutting
Hammer , rope , a bronze nail and 2 arctic pine logs .
Started The Fremennik Isles
70 Mining
Any pickaxe
Partial completion of Throne of Miscellania
Rake , pickaxe , axe , harpoon and/or lobster pot , depending on how you plan to gain support.
Completion of Lunar Diplomacy
72 Magic and means to cast Waterbirth teleport ( )
Started The Giant Dwarf
60 Smithing
If you are having trouble completing the task, try hopping worlds and speaking to the foreman again, avoiding the pay option.
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Fremennik sea boots 3
Antique lamp worth 15,000 experience in any skill above 50
The Rellekka Rooftop Course will give additional experience upon completion.
Ability to change enchanted lyre teleport destination to Waterbirth Island
Aviansie in the God Wars Dungeon will drop adamantite bars in noted form
Stony basalt teleport destination changed to the roof of the Troll Stronghold if you have 73
Access to 2 new Lunar spells : Tan Leather — Requires 78 , ; tans up to 5 hides per spell. Recharge Dragonstone — Requires 89 , ; recharges all items in inventory per spell.
Tan Leather — Requires 78 , ; tans up to 5 hides per spell.
Recharge Dragonstone — Requires 89 , ; recharges all items in inventory per spell.
Fossegrimen will permanently enchant your lyre for a discounted price of 400 raw sharks , raw bass , raw manta rays , and raw sea turtles
Elite [ edit | edit source ]
Items required Combat equipment 28 pure essence Dragonstone Gold bar Amulet mould
Combat equipment
28 pure essence
Dragonstone
Gold bar
Amulet mould
Skills needed High 80 Agility 80 Crafting 70 Hitpoints 70 Ranged 82 Runecraft 83 Slayer 70 Strength
High
80 Agility
80 Crafting
70 Hitpoints
70 Ranged
82 Runecraft
83 Slayer
70 Strength
Quests required The Fremennik Isles The Fremennik Trials Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Lunar Diplomacy Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
The Fremennik Isles The Fremennik Trials
The Fremennik Trials
Troll Stronghold Death Plateau
Death Plateau
Lunar Diplomacy Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Lost City
Rune Mysteries
Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Druidic Ritual
Task Requirements 1. Kill each of the Dagannoth Kings (logging out or switching worlds will not reset your progress). Note: Completing or updating any other task, including those from other diaries, will reset the progress for this task. Good combat stats and equipment to kill all three. 2. Craft 56 astral runes simultaneously from Essence without the use of Extracts . Completion of Lunar Diplomacy 82 Runecraft 28 pure or daeyalt essence 3. Create a dragonstone amulet in the Neitiznot furnace. Started The Fremennik Isles 80 Crafting Dragonstone , gold bar and an amulet mould Only crafting Dragonstone amulet (u) is necessary. You do not need to string it. 4. Complete a lap of the Rellekka Rooftop Course . 80 Agility 5. Kill the generals of Armadyl , Bandos , Saradomin , and Zamorak in the God Wars Dungeon . Partial completion of the Troll Stronghold , or completion of the Easy Combat Achievements 70 Agility , 70 Strength , 70 Hitpoints and 70 Ranged (none can be boosted) Combat equipment to kill all four generals If you start the Frozen Door miniquest, these kills will count for that. You don't have to kill the bodyguards Kills do not reset upon logging out, hopping worlds, leaving the God Wars Dungeon, dying, or completing other Achievement Diary tasks. They also do not provide a task update message ("Achievement Diary Stage Task - Current stage: x"). 6. Slay a Spiritual mage within the God Wars Dungeon . Completion of the Troll Stronghold 83 Slayer Weaponry
Note: Completing or updating any other task, including those from other diaries, will reset the progress for this task.
Good combat stats and equipment to kill all three.
Completion of Lunar Diplomacy
82 Runecraft
28 pure or daeyalt essence
Started The Fremennik Isles
80 Crafting
Dragonstone , gold bar and an amulet mould
Only crafting Dragonstone amulet (u) is necessary. You do not need to string it.
80 Agility
Partial completion of the Troll Stronghold , or completion of the Easy Combat Achievements
70 Agility , 70 Strength , 70 Hitpoints and 70 Ranged (none can be boosted)
Combat equipment to kill all four generals
If you start the Frozen Door miniquest, these kills will count for that.
You don't have to kill the bodyguards
Kills do not reset upon logging out, hopping worlds, leaving the God Wars Dungeon, dying, or completing other Achievement Diary tasks. They also do not provide a task update message ("Achievement Diary Stage Task - Current stage: x").
They also do not provide a task update message ("Achievement Diary Stage Task - Current stage: x").
Completion of the Troll Stronghold
83 Slayer
Weaponry
^ If you have some piece of the Raiments of the Eye outfit, fewer may be required; 26 essence for 1 piece, 24 for 2 pieces, 22 for 3 pieces or 19 for the full outfit.
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Fremennik sea boots 4 Unlimited free teleports to Rellekka
Unlimited free teleports to Rellekka
Antique lamp worth 50,000 experience in any skill above 70
Dagannoth bones will be dropped in noted form from the Dagannoth Kings . Can be toggled off by talking to Thorodin
Can be toggled off by talking to Thorodin
The Enchanted lyre can now teleport to Jatizso and Neitiznot
+15% chance of gaining approval in Managing Miscellania
Seal of passage is no longer needed to interact with anyone on Lunar Isle Access to the Return Orb inside the bank on Lunar Isle which will allow you to return to Rellekka as an alternative to being kicked off the island.
Access to the Return Orb inside the bank on Lunar Isle which will allow you to return to Rellekka as an alternative to being kicked off the island.
Fossegrimen will permanently enchant your lyre for a discounted price of 200 raw sharks , raw bass , raw manta rays , and raw sea turtles
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
Date Changes 8 May 2024 ( update ) The Agility experience received for completing the Rellekka Rooftop Course has been increased from 780 to 920 upon completion of the hard Fremennik Diary. The Hard diary completion is not a requirement to use the Troll Stronghold agility shortcut anymore. However, the diary completion still changes the Stony Basalt teleport location to the rooftop, closer to the herb patch. 5 January 2022 ( update ) "Kill each of the God Wars Dungeon Generals" was changed to "Kill the generals of Armadyl, Bandos, Saradomin and Zamorak in the God Wars Dungeon." 14 April 2021 ( update ) All diary tasks to craft runes were changed to clarify they only can be completed with essence. 28 April 2016 ( update ) The spelling of Fremennik has been corrected in the Fremennik diary's journal. 8 October 2015 ( update ) The Fremennik Achievement diary task to collect 5 Snape grass on Waterbirth Island has been updated to track your progress more consistently. 24 September 2015 ( update | poll ) Adamant bar drops from Aviansie in the God Wars Dungeon are now noted after completing the hard Fremennik achievement diary. 13 August 2015 ( update ) Picking up a pet cat in the PoH Menagerie no longer completes the task "Pick up your Pet Rock from your PoH Menagerie". 4 June 2015 ( update ) Fixed a typo in Fremennik Hard Diary. 30 April 2015 ( update ) You must now kill each of the Dagannoth kings to complete the respective task.
The Agility experience received for completing the Rellekka Rooftop Course has been increased from 780 to 920 upon completion of the hard Fremennik Diary.
The Hard diary completion is not a requirement to use the Troll Stronghold agility shortcut anymore. However, the diary completion still changes the Stony Basalt teleport location to the rooftop, closer to the herb patch.
"Kill each of the God Wars Dungeon Generals" was changed to "Kill the generals of Armadyl, Bandos, Saradomin and Zamorak in the God Wars Dungeon."
All diary tasks to craft runes were changed to clarify they only can be completed with essence.
The spelling of Fremennik has been corrected in the Fremennik diary's journal.
The Fremennik Achievement diary task to collect 5 Snape grass on Waterbirth Island has been updated to track your progress more consistently.
Adamant bar drops from Aviansie in the God Wars Dungeon are now noted after completing the hard Fremennik achievement diary.
Picking up a pet cat in the PoH Menagerie no longer completes the task "Pick up your Pet Rock from your PoH Menagerie".
Fixed a typo in Fremennik Hard Diary.
You must now kill each of the Dagannoth kings to complete the respective task.
Trivia [ edit | edit source ]
The "Craft 56 astral runes at once from essence." task has a copy paste error after its completion by the player, instead stating "Craft 56 astral runes from essence simultaneously from Essence without the use of Extracts.".
References [ edit | edit source ]
^ Jagex. Mod Ash's Twitter account . 18 August 2020.  Archived from the original on 18 November 2022. Mod Ash: "For Fishing & Woodcutting, approval tends to be given as a random chance of an increase; the 10% or 15% buff may not make much visible difference. And for the other skills, approval had a 100% chance of being given, so the buff is immaterial."
v • t • e Achievement Diaries Ardougne Two-pints Ardougne cloak 1 Ardougne cloak 2 Ardougne cloak 3 Ardougne cloak 4 Desert Jarr Desert amulet 1 Desert amulet 2 Desert amulet 3 Desert amulet 4 Falador Sir Rebral Falador shield 1 Falador shield 2 Falador shield 3 Falador shield 4 Fremennik Thorodin Fremennik sea boots 1 Fremennik sea boots 2 Fremennik sea boots 3 Fremennik sea boots 4 Kandarin The 'Wedge' Kandarin headgear 1 Kandarin headgear 2 Kandarin headgear 3 Kandarin headgear 4 Karamja Pirate Jackie the Fruit Karamja gloves 1 Karamja gloves 2 Karamja gloves 3 Karamja gloves 4 Kourend & Kebos Elise Rada's blessing 1 Rada's blessing 2 Rada's blessing 3 Rada's blessing 4 Ash sanctifier Lumbridge & Draynor Hatius Cosaintus Explorer's ring 1 Explorer's ring 2 Explorer's ring 3 Explorer's ring 4 Morytania Le-sabrè Morytania legs 1 Morytania legs 2 Morytania legs 3 Morytania legs 4 Bonecrusher Varrock Toby Varrock armour 1 Varrock armour 2 Varrock armour 3 Varrock armour 4 Western Provinces Elder Gnome child Western banner 1 Western banner 2 Western banner 3 Western banner 4 Wilderness Lesser Fanatic Wilderness sword 1 Wilderness sword 2 Wilderness sword 3 Wilderness sword 4 Other Twiggy O'Korn Achievement diary Steam Achievements
Two-pints
Ardougne cloak 1
Ardougne cloak 2
Ardougne cloak 3
Ardougne cloak 4
Jarr
Desert amulet 1
Desert amulet 2
Desert amulet 3
Desert amulet 4
Sir Rebral
Falador shield 1
Falador shield 2
Falador shield 3
Falador shield 4
Thorodin
Fremennik sea boots 1
Fremennik sea boots 2
Fremennik sea boots 3
Fremennik sea boots 4
The 'Wedge'
Kandarin headgear 1
Kandarin headgear 2
Kandarin headgear 3
Kandarin headgear 4
Pirate Jackie the Fruit
Karamja gloves 1
Karamja gloves 2
Karamja gloves 3
Karamja gloves 4
Elise
Rada's blessing 1
Rada's blessing 2
Rada's blessing 3
Rada's blessing 4
Ash sanctifier
Hatius Cosaintus
Explorer's ring 1
Explorer's ring 2
Explorer's ring 3
Explorer's ring 4
Le-sabrè
Morytania legs 1
Morytania legs 2
Morytania legs 3
Morytania legs 4
Bonecrusher
Toby
Varrock armour 1
Varrock armour 2
Varrock armour 3
Varrock armour 4
Elder Gnome child
Western banner 1
Western banner 2
Western banner 3
Western banner 4
Lesser Fanatic
Wilderness sword 1
Wilderness sword 2
Wilderness sword 3
Wilderness sword 4
Twiggy O'Korn
Achievement diary
Steam Achievements
Achievement diaries
Pages with a checklist
Pages with maps
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
6m ago - Sedridor
44m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
44m ago - Hewatt
59m ago - Hewatt
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 17 December 2024, at 18:10.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view