Morytania Diary
Morytania Diary Released 5 March 2015 ( Update ) Area(s) Morytania , Paterdomus , Harmony Island and Mos Le'Harmless Members Yes Item reward Platelegs Lamp XP rewards 2,500 7,500 15,000 50,000 Taskmaster(s) Le-sabrè League region Morytania ✓
The Morytania Diary is a set of achievement diaries whose tasks revolve around areas within and around Morytania , such as Paterdomus , Harmony Island , and Mos Le'Harmless . Completion of Priest in Peril is required for all tasks, as it is needed to enter Morytania.
Several skill, quest and item requirements are needed to complete all tasks. Unless stated otherwise, temporary skill boosts can be used to meet the skill requirements.
Rewards can be claimed from Le-sabrè just west of Canifis . Note that the previous tiers of a diary must be completed to claim rewards of the next tier.
Contents
1 Overview
2 Easy 2.1 Rewards
2.1 Rewards
3 Medium 3.1 Rewards
3.1 Rewards
4 Hard 4.1 Rewards
4.1 Rewards
5 Elite 5.1 Rewards
5.1 Rewards
6 Changes
Overview [ edit | edit source ]
Skill requirements 12 15 15 23 20 84+ Quest requirements Nature Spirit Additional requirements None
Skill requirements 12 15 15 23 20 84+
Quest requirements Nature Spirit
Additional requirements None
^ 47 for ironmen
Skill requirements 42 50 22 50 40 40 45 42 40 29 335+ Quest requirements Cabin Fever Dwarf Cannon Ghosts Ahoy Lair of Tarn Razorlor Additional requirements Started In Aid of the Myreque
Skill requirements 42 50 22 50 40 40 45 42 40 29 335+
Quest requirements Cabin Fever Dwarf Cannon Ghosts Ahoy Lair of Tarn Razorlor
Additional requirements Started In Aid of the Myreque
Skill requirements 55 71 50 70 53 70 50 66 50 58 53 50 707+ Quest requirements Desert Treasure I Haunted Mine In Aid of the Myreque King's Ransom Additional requirements Started The Great Brain Robbery
Skill requirements 55 71 50 70 53 70 50 66 50 58 53 50 707+
Quest requirements Desert Treasure I Haunted Mine In Aid of the Myreque King's Ransom
Additional requirements Started The Great Brain Robbery
^ not boostable.
Skill requirements 1 76 70 96 1 84 80 83 85 660+ Quest requirements In Aid of the Myreque Lunar Diplomacy Shades of Mort'ton Additional requirements Completed the Fishing section of the Barbarian Training miniquest Loot barrows chest while wearing any complete Barrows set
Skill requirements 1 76 70 96 1 84 80 83 85 660+
Quest requirements In Aid of the Myreque Lunar Diplomacy Shades of Mort'ton
Additional requirements Completed the Fishing section of the Barbarian Training miniquest Loot barrows chest while wearing any complete Barrows set
^ 70 if wearing Ahrim's , Dharok's , Guthan's , Torag's or Verac's .
^ 70 if wearing Karil's .
Easy [ edit | edit source ]
Items required Chisel Ghostspeak amulet Earmuffs Any blamish snail shell (cannot use Snail shell ) Thin snail 2 Ecto-tokens (0 if Ghosts Ahoy completed) or up to 5200 Coins for Charter ship needed to enter Port Phasmatys . Any tannable hide + Coins: cowhide or green - black dragonhide ( not a Suqah hide ) Scarecrow (or a watermelon , a bronze spear and a hay sack ) Bonemeal (or a pot and any bones ) Bucket of slime Wolfbane dagger
Chisel
Ghostspeak amulet
Earmuffs
Any blamish snail shell (cannot use Snail shell )
Thin snail
2 Ecto-tokens (0 if Ghosts Ahoy completed) or up to 5200 Coins for Charter ship needed to enter Port Phasmatys .
Any tannable hide + Coins: cowhide or green - black dragonhide ( not a Suqah hide )
Scarecrow (or a watermelon , a bronze spear and a hay sack )
Bonemeal (or a pot and any bones )
Bucket of slime
Wolfbane dagger
Skills needed 12 Cooking 15 Crafting 20 Combat level 23 Farming (47 if Ironman to grow a watermelon for the scarecrow ) 15 Slayer
12 Cooking
15 Crafting
20 Combat level
23 Farming (47 if Ironman to grow a watermelon for the scarecrow )
15 Slayer
Quests required Priest in Peril Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost
Priest in Peril
Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost
The Restless Ghost
Task Requirements 1. Craft any snelm from scratch in Morytania . 15 Crafting Chisel Any blamish shell 2. Cook a thin snail on the Port Phasmatys range. 12 Cooking Thin snail 2 Ecto-tokens (0 if Ghosts Ahoy completed) or up to 5200 Coins for Charter ship needed to enter Port Phasmatys . Tip: Smelt a set of cannonballs there to complete a medium task 3. Get a Slayer task from Mazchna . 20 Combat level 4. Kill a banshee in the Slayer Tower . 15 Slayer Earmuffs or a Slayer helmet are highly recommended 5. Have Sbott tan something for you. Any tannable hide and 2-45 coins depending on the type of hide 6. Enter Mort Myre Swamp . Partial completion of Nature Spirit 7. Kill a ghoul . Weaponry 8. Place a Scarecrow in the Morytania flower patch . 23 Farming (level 47 for Ironman accounts ) Scarecrow (made with a bronze spear , watermelon and hay sack ) 9. Offer some Bonemeal at the Ectofuntus . Pot , bucket and any bones 10. Kill a Werewolf in its human form using the Wolfbane dagger . Wolfbane dagger (reward from Priest in Peril ) 11. Restore your prayer points at the altar of nature . Completion of Nature Spirit Tip: Activate Piety while praying to complete a hard task
15 Crafting
Chisel
Any blamish shell
12 Cooking
Thin snail
2 Ecto-tokens (0 if Ghosts Ahoy completed) or up to 5200 Coins for Charter ship needed to enter Port Phasmatys .
Tip: Smelt a set of cannonballs there to complete a medium task
20 Combat level
15 Slayer
Earmuffs or a Slayer helmet are highly recommended
Any tannable hide and 2-45 coins depending on the type of hide
Partial completion of Nature Spirit
Weaponry
23 Farming (level 47 for Ironman accounts )
Scarecrow (made with a bronze spear , watermelon and hay sack )
Pot , bucket and any bones
Wolfbane dagger (reward from Priest in Peril )
Completion of Nature Spirit
Tip: Activate Piety while praying to complete a hard task
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Morytania legs 1 2 daily teleports to the Slime Pit beneath the Ectofuntus
2 daily teleports to the Slime Pit beneath the Ectofuntus
Antique lamp worth 2,500 experience in any skill above 30
50% chance of a ghast ignoring you rather than attacking
2.5% more Slayer experience in the Slayer Tower while on a Slayer task
Medium [ edit | edit source ]
Items required At least 1 rope and small fishing net Any axe 25 ecto-tokens (10 with a ring of charos ) Ghostspeak amulet Weapon and armour Another player on opposing team to help you start Trouble Brewing Steel bar Ammo mould or Double ammo mould Slayer gloves (if within melee distance) (not needed if already done Cabin Fever, which is required anyway) Ectophial Restore potion Garlic Silver dust
At least 1 rope and small fishing net
Any axe
25 ecto-tokens (10 with a ring of charos )
Ghostspeak amulet
Weapon and armour
Another player on opposing team to help you start Trouble Brewing
Steel bar
Ammo mould or Double ammo mould
Slayer gloves (if within melee distance) (not needed if already done Cabin Fever, which is required anyway)
Ectophial
Restore potion
Garlic
Silver dust
Skills needed 42 Agility 40 Cooking 50 Fishing 22 Herblore 29 Hunter 40 Ranged 42 Slayer 50 Smithing 45 Woodcutting 40 Farming
42 Agility
40 Cooking
50 Fishing
22 Herblore
29 Hunter
40 Ranged
42 Slayer
50 Smithing
45 Woodcutting
40 Farming
Quests required Dwarf Cannon Ghosts Ahoy The Restless Ghost Priest in Peril Lair of Tarn Razorlor miniquest Haunted Mine Cabin Fever Pirate's Treasure Rum Deal Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual Started In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit
Dwarf Cannon
Ghosts Ahoy The Restless Ghost Priest in Peril
The Restless Ghost
Priest in Peril
Lair of Tarn Razorlor miniquest Haunted Mine
Haunted Mine
Cabin Fever Pirate's Treasure Rum Deal Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Pirate's Treasure
Rum Deal Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Big Chompy Bird Hunting
Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Druidic Ritual
Started In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit
In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit
Nature Spirit
Task Requirements 1. Catch a swamp lizard . 29 Hunter Rope and small fishing net 2. Complete a lap of the Canifis agility course . 40 Agility 3. Obtain some Bark from a Hollow tree . 45 Woodcutting Any axe 4. Travel to Dragontooth Isle . Note: Visited during Ghosts Ahoy . Ghostspeak amulet and 25 ecto-tokens (or 10 with the ring of charos (a) ) 5. Kill a Terror Dog . Completion of the Haunted Mine and Lair of Tarn Razorlor 40 Slayer Combat gear Recommended: Slayer ring to teleport nearby 6. Complete a game of trouble brewing . Note: Winning is optional. Completion of Cabin Fever 40 Cooking Players require an empty inventory and helm slot. At least one opposing player is required to start the game. 7. Board the Swampy boat at the Hollows . Note: There is a nearby fairy ring ( B K R ). Completion of Nature Spirit 8. Make a batch of cannonballs at the Port Phasmatys furnace. Completion of Dwarf Cannon 35 Smithing Steel bar and ammo mould or double ammo mould 9. Kill a Fever Spider on Braindeath Island . Note: Achieved during Rum Deal . Started Rum Deal 42 Slayer Slayer gloves are recommended to prevent disease 10. Use an ectophial to return to Port Phasmatys . Completion of Ghosts Ahoy Ectophial 11. Mix a Guthix Balance potion while in Morytania . Partial completion of In Aid of the Myreque 22 Herblore Restore potion , garlic and silver dust (made by using a silver bar on the Ectofuntus bone grinder )
29 Hunter
Rope and small fishing net
40 Agility
45 Woodcutting
Any axe
Note: Visited during Ghosts Ahoy .
Ghostspeak amulet and 25 ecto-tokens (or 10 with the ring of charos (a) )
Completion of the Haunted Mine and Lair of Tarn Razorlor
40 Slayer
Combat gear
Recommended: Slayer ring to teleport nearby
Note: Winning is optional.
Completion of Cabin Fever
40 Cooking
Players require an empty inventory and helm slot. At least one opposing player is required to start the game.
Note: There is a nearby fairy ring ( B K R ).
Completion of Nature Spirit
Completion of Dwarf Cannon
35 Smithing
Steel bar and ammo mould or double ammo mould
Note: Achieved during Rum Deal .
Started Rum Deal
42 Slayer
Slayer gloves are recommended to prevent disease
Completion of Ghosts Ahoy
Ectophial
Partial completion of In Aid of the Myreque
22 Herblore
Restore potion , garlic and silver dust (made by using a silver bar on the Ectofuntus bone grinder )
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Morytania legs 2 5 daily teleports to the Slime Pit beneath the Ectofuntus Acts as a ghostspeak amulet when worn
5 daily teleports to the Slime Pit beneath the Ectofuntus
Acts as a ghostspeak amulet when worn
Antique lamp worth 7,500 experience in any skill above 40
Robin offers 13 buckets of slime and 13 pots of bonemeal in exchange for bones each day
5% more Slayer experience in the Slayer Tower while on a Slayer task
Hard [ edit | edit source ]
Items required 3 teak planks 100,000 coins if you haven't already built a portal chamber. 2 limestone bricks if you haven't already built a teleport focus 200 law runes 100 blood runes 3 watermelon seeds Any axe Tinderbox Decent weapon and armour Witchwood icon Light source Mushroom spore Pickaxe Crystal-mine key Hammer Saw Farming supplies
3 teak planks
100,000 coins if you haven't already built a portal chamber.
2 limestone bricks if you haven't already built a teleport focus
200 law runes
100 blood runes
3 watermelon seeds
Any axe
Tinderbox
Decent weapon and armour
Witchwood icon
Light source
Mushroom spore
Pickaxe
Crystal-mine key
Hammer
Saw
Farming supplies
Skills needed 71 Agility 50 Construction 70 Defence 53 Farming 50 Firemaking 66 Magic 55 Mining 70 Prayer 58 Slayer 50 Woodcutting 50 Smithing 53 Thieving
71 Agility
50 Construction
70 Defence
53 Farming
50 Firemaking
66 Magic
55 Mining
70 Prayer
58 Slayer
50 Woodcutting
50 Smithing
53 Thieving
Quests required Haunted Mine Priest in Peril Desert Treasure I Temple of Ikov The Tourist Trap Waterfall Quest The Dig Site Druidic Ritual Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Started The Great Brain Robbery Creature of Fenkenstrain Cabin Fever Pirate's Treasure Priest in Peril Rum Deal Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting Freeing Pirate Pete subquest of Recipe for Disaster Cook's Assistant In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost Knight Waves Training Grounds King's Ransom Black Knights' Fortress Murder Mystery Holy Grail Merlin's Crystal One Small Favour Rune Mysteries Shilo Village
Haunted Mine Priest in Peril
Priest in Peril
Desert Treasure I Temple of Ikov The Tourist Trap Waterfall Quest The Dig Site Druidic Ritual Troll Stronghold Death Plateau
Temple of Ikov
The Tourist Trap
Waterfall Quest
The Dig Site Druidic Ritual
Druidic Ritual
Troll Stronghold Death Plateau
Death Plateau
Started The Great Brain Robbery Creature of Fenkenstrain Cabin Fever Pirate's Treasure Priest in Peril Rum Deal Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting Freeing Pirate Pete subquest of Recipe for Disaster Cook's Assistant
Creature of Fenkenstrain
Cabin Fever Pirate's Treasure Priest in Peril Rum Deal Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting
Pirate's Treasure
Priest in Peril
Rum Deal Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting
Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting
Big Chompy Bird Hunting
Freeing Pirate Pete subquest of Recipe for Disaster Cook's Assistant
Cook's Assistant
In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost
In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost
Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost
The Restless Ghost
Knight Waves Training Grounds King's Ransom Black Knights' Fortress Murder Mystery Holy Grail Merlin's Crystal One Small Favour Rune Mysteries Shilo Village
King's Ransom Black Knights' Fortress Murder Mystery Holy Grail Merlin's Crystal One Small Favour Rune Mysteries Shilo Village
Black Knights' Fortress
Murder Mystery
Holy Grail Merlin's Crystal
Merlin's Crystal
One Small Favour Rune Mysteries Shilo Village
Rune Mysteries
Shilo Village
Task Requirements 1. Enter the Kharyrll portal in your POH . Note: Either a Portal chamber or Portal nexus works. Completion of Desert Treasure I 66 Magic To construct the portal chamber : 50 Construction , 100,000 coins , 2 limestone bricks , 3 teak planks , a hammer and saw To charge the portal: 200 law runes and 100 blood runes (you do not need to equip the ancient spellbook ) Alternatively, the more expensive Portal nexus can be used 2. Climb the advanced spike chain within Slayer Tower . Note: the "advanced" spike chain is located on the 1 floor 2 floor near Infernal Mages leading to the 2 floor 3 floor near Nechryael. 71 Agility (Boostable) If using the southern spike chain shortcut to aberrant spectres, a nose peg / Slayer helmet is required to prevent them draining agility. A longer, safer route can be taken without aggressive monsters that require special equipment. Task does not complete if damage is taken. 3. Harvest some Watermelon from the allotment patch on Harmony Island . Started The Great Brain Robbery 47 Farming 3 watermelon seeds , spade , rake and seed dibber Ultracompost is recommended 4. Chop and burn some mahogany logs on Mos Le'Harmless . Completion of Cabin Fever 50 Woodcutting and 50 Firemaking Any axe and tinderbox A Light Source and a Witchwood Icon is recommended, as you will have to go through the Mos Le'Harmless Cave 5. Complete a temple trek with a hard companion. Completion of In Aid of the Myreque Combat gear Recommended: Completion of Darkness of Hallowvale to unlock the reverse route It is not necessary to complete any events to complete the task 6. Kill a Cave Horror . Completion of Cabin Fever 58 Slayer Witchwood icon and a light source 7. Harvest some Bittercap Mushrooms from the patch in Canifis . 53 Farming Mushroom spore , rake and seed dibber Ultracompost is recommended 8. Pray at the Altar of Nature with Piety activated. Note: The Altar of Nature is in the Nature Grotto . Completion of Nature Spirit and the Knight Waves Training Grounds 70 Prayer and 70 Defence 9. Use the shortcut to get to the bridge over the Salve . Note: Only counts when going downwards. 65 Agility 10. Mine some mithril ore in the Abandoned Mine . Completion of Haunted Mine 55 Mining Any pickaxe Crystal mine key
Note: Either a Portal chamber or Portal nexus works.
Completion of Desert Treasure I
66 Magic
To construct the portal chamber : 50 Construction , 100,000 coins , 2 limestone bricks , 3 teak planks , a hammer and saw
To charge the portal: 200 law runes and 100 blood runes (you do not need to equip the ancient spellbook )
Alternatively, the more expensive Portal nexus can be used
Note: the "advanced" spike chain is located on the 1 floor 2 floor near Infernal Mages leading to the 2 floor 3 floor near Nechryael.
71 Agility (Boostable)
If using the southern spike chain shortcut to aberrant spectres, a nose peg / Slayer helmet is required to prevent them draining agility. A longer, safer route can be taken without aggressive monsters that require special equipment.
Task does not complete if damage is taken.
Started The Great Brain Robbery
47 Farming
3 watermelon seeds , spade , rake and seed dibber
Ultracompost is recommended
Completion of Cabin Fever
50 Woodcutting and 50 Firemaking
Any axe and tinderbox
A Light Source and a Witchwood Icon is recommended, as you will have to go through the Mos Le'Harmless Cave
Completion of In Aid of the Myreque
Combat gear
Recommended: Completion of Darkness of Hallowvale to unlock the reverse route
It is not necessary to complete any events to complete the task
Completion of Cabin Fever
58 Slayer
Witchwood icon and a light source
53 Farming
Mushroom spore , rake and seed dibber
Ultracompost is recommended
Note: The Altar of Nature is in the Nature Grotto .
Completion of Nature Spirit and the Knight Waves Training Grounds
70 Prayer and 70 Defence
65 Agility
Completion of Haunted Mine
55 Mining
Any pickaxe
Crystal mine key
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Morytania legs 3 Unlimited teleports to Burgh de Rott
Unlimited teleports to Burgh de Rott
Bonecrusher An additional item that, when carried, causes bones dropped from killed monsters to be automatically buried, granting half the Prayer experience that would have been granted for burying them normally; charged with a small amount of ecto-tokens It can be claimed from a ghost disciple . Note: A Ghostspeak amulet or Morytania legs 3 must be worn when claiming the Bonecrusher.
An additional item that, when carried, causes bones dropped from killed monsters to be automatically buried, granting half the Prayer experience that would have been granted for burying them normally; charged with a small amount of ecto-tokens
It can be claimed from a ghost disciple . Note: A Ghostspeak amulet or Morytania legs 3 must be worn when claiming the Bonecrusher.
Antique lamp worth 15,000 experience in any skill above 50
Robin offers 26 buckets of slime and 26 pots of bonemeal in exchange for bones each day
Double Mort myre fungi when casting Bloom
50% more Prayer experience from burning shade remains
50% more runes from the Barrows chest
7.5% more Slayer experience in the Slayer Tower while on a Slayer task
Elite [ edit | edit source ]
Items required Magic pyre logs Shade remains Tinderbox 2 nature runes 3 astral runes 15 earth runes 3 black dragon leather Needle Thread Combat equipment Any full Barrows equipment set
Magic pyre logs
Shade remains
Tinderbox
2 nature runes
3 astral runes
15 earth runes
3 black dragon leather
Needle
Thread
Combat equipment
Any full Barrows equipment set
Skills needed 70 Attack or 70 Ranged 84 Crafting 70 Defence 80 Firemaking 96 Fishing 83 Magic 85 Slayer 76 Strength
70 Attack or 70 Ranged
84 Crafting
70 Defence
80 Firemaking
96 Fishing
83 Magic
85 Slayer
76 Strength
Quests required Barbarian Fishing Shades of Mort'ton Priest in Peril In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost Lunar Diplomacy The Fremennik Trials Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Barbarian Fishing
Shades of Mort'ton Priest in Peril
Priest in Peril
In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost
In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost
Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost
The Restless Ghost
Lunar Diplomacy The Fremennik Trials Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
The Fremennik Trials
Lost City
Rune Mysteries
Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual
Druidic Ritual
Task Requirements 1. Catch a shark in Burgh de Rott with your bare hands. Completion of In Aid of the Myreque Access to Barbarian Fishing 96 Fishing and 76 Strength (Boostable from 91 Fishing with Admiral pie ) 2. Cremate any Shade remains on a Magic or Redwood pyre . Completion of Shades of Mort'ton 80 Firemaking Magic pyre logs , any shade remains and a tinderbox 3. Fertilize the Morytania herb patch using Lunar Magic . Note: The herb patch is west of Port Phasmatys . Completion of Lunar Diplomacy 83 Magic and means to cast Fertile Soil ( ) 4. Craft a Black dragonhide body in the Canifis bank. 84 Crafting 3 black dragon leather , needle and thread 5. Kill an Abyssal demon in the Slayer Tower . 85 Slayer Combat gear (3rd floor Abyssal demons does not require a task) 6. Loot the Barrows chest while wearing any complete barrows set . Note: Requires equipping the weapon as well. 70 Defence Various other skill requirements depending on the set used, none of which can be boosted: 70 Attack and 70 Magic for Ahrim's 70 Attack and 70 Strength for Dharok's or Torag's 70 Attack for Guthan's or Verac's 70 Ranged for Karil's
Completion of In Aid of the Myreque
Access to Barbarian Fishing
96 Fishing and 76 Strength (Boostable from 91 Fishing with Admiral pie )
Completion of Shades of Mort'ton
80 Firemaking
Magic pyre logs , any shade remains and a tinderbox
Note: The herb patch is west of Port Phasmatys .
Completion of Lunar Diplomacy
83 Magic and means to cast Fertile Soil ( )
84 Crafting
3 black dragon leather , needle and thread
85 Slayer
Combat gear
(3rd floor Abyssal demons does not require a task)
Note: Requires equipping the weapon as well.
70 Defence
Various other skill requirements depending on the set used, none of which can be boosted: 70 Attack and 70 Magic for Ahrim's 70 Attack and 70 Strength for Dharok's or Torag's 70 Attack for Guthan's or Verac's 70 Ranged for Karil's
70 Attack and 70 Magic for Ahrim's
70 Attack and 70 Strength for Dharok's or Torag's
70 Attack for Guthan's or Verac's
70 Ranged for Karil's
Rewards [ edit | edit source ]
Morytania legs 4 Unlimited teleports to the slime pit beneath the Ectofuntus While equipped, completely blocks the attack Ghasts use that turns food into Rotten food.
Unlimited teleports to the slime pit beneath the Ectofuntus
While equipped, completely blocks the attack Ghasts use that turns food into Rotten food.
Antique lamp worth 50,000 experience in any skill above 70
Robin offers 39 buckets of slime and 39 pots of bonemeal in exchange for bones each day
50% more Firemaking experience when burning shade remains
Bones buried via the Bonecrusher grant full Prayer experience
Access to the herb patch on Harmony Island
10% more Slayer experience in the Slayer Tower while on a Slayer task
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
Date Changes 4 May 2017 ( update ) Abyssal Demons in the new Slayer Tower Basement will now count towards the Morytania Achievement Diary. 24 September 2015 ( update ) Typo in Morytania Diary journal fixed. 17 September 2015 ( update ) The task to make a Guthix balance potion in Morytania will now tick off if you are anywhere in Morytania, not just at ground level. 16 July 2015 ( update ) Fixed misspelling of "receive" in Ardougne, Karamja, Morytania and Wilderness Diaries. 7 May 2015 ( update ) Climbing the medium spiked chain at the slayer tower no longer completes the Morytania task for climbing the advanced spike chain. 9 April 2015 ( update ) Fixed typos in the Morytania achievement diary.
Abyssal Demons in the new Slayer Tower Basement will now count towards the Morytania Achievement Diary.
Typo in Morytania Diary journal fixed.
The task to make a Guthix balance potion in Morytania will now tick off if you are anywhere in Morytania, not just at ground level.
Fixed misspelling of "receive" in Ardougne, Karamja, Morytania and Wilderness Diaries.
Climbing the medium spiked chain at the slayer tower no longer completes the Morytania task for climbing the advanced spike chain.
Fixed typos in the Morytania achievement diary.
v • t • e Achievement Diaries Ardougne Two-pints Ardougne cloak 1 Ardougne cloak 2 Ardougne cloak 3 Ardougne cloak 4 Desert Jarr Desert amulet 1 Desert amulet 2 Desert amulet 3 Desert amulet 4 Falador Sir Rebral Falador shield 1 Falador shield 2 Falador shield 3 Falador shield 4 Fremennik Thorodin Fremennik sea boots 1 Fremennik sea boots 2 Fremennik sea boots 3 Fremennik sea boots 4 Kandarin The 'Wedge' Kandarin headgear 1 Kandarin headgear 2 Kandarin headgear 3 Kandarin headgear 4 Karamja Pirate Jackie the Fruit Karamja gloves 1 Karamja gloves 2 Karamja gloves 3 Karamja gloves 4 Kourend & Kebos Elise Rada's blessing 1 Rada's blessing 2 Rada's blessing 3 Rada's blessing 4 Ash sanctifier Lumbridge & Draynor Hatius Cosaintus Explorer's ring 1 Explorer's ring 2 Explorer's ring 3 Explorer's ring 4 Morytania Le-sabrè Morytania legs 1 Morytania legs 2 Morytania legs 3 Morytania legs 4 Bonecrusher Varrock Toby Varrock armour 1 Varrock armour 2 Varrock armour 3 Varrock armour 4 Western Provinces Elder Gnome child Western banner 1 Western banner 2 Western banner 3 Western banner 4 Wilderness Lesser Fanatic Wilderness sword 1 Wilderness sword 2 Wilderness sword 3 Wilderness sword 4 Other Twiggy O'Korn Achievement diary Steam Achievements
Two-pints
Ardougne cloak 1
Ardougne cloak 2
Ardougne cloak 3
Ardougne cloak 4
Jarr
Desert amulet 1
Desert amulet 2
Desert amulet 3
Desert amulet 4
Sir Rebral
Falador shield 1
Falador shield 2
Falador shield 3
Falador shield 4
Thorodin
Fremennik sea boots 1
Fremennik sea boots 2
Fremennik sea boots 3
Fremennik sea boots 4
The 'Wedge'
Kandarin headgear 1
Kandarin headgear 2
Kandarin headgear 3
Kandarin headgear 4
Pirate Jackie the Fruit
Karamja gloves 1
Karamja gloves 2
Karamja gloves 3
Karamja gloves 4
Elise
Rada's blessing 1
Rada's blessing 2
Rada's blessing 3
Rada's blessing 4
Ash sanctifier
Hatius Cosaintus
Explorer's ring 1
Explorer's ring 2
Explorer's ring 3
Explorer's ring 4
Le-sabrè
Morytania legs 1
Morytania legs 2
Morytania legs 3
Morytania legs 4
Bonecrusher
Toby
Varrock armour 1
Varrock armour 2
Varrock armour 3
Varrock armour 4
Elder Gnome child
Western banner 1
Western banner 2
Western banner 3
Western banner 4
Lesser Fanatic
Wilderness sword 1
Wilderness sword 2
Wilderness sword 3
Wilderness sword 4
Twiggy O'Korn
Achievement diary
Steam Achievements
Achievement diaries
Pages with a checklist
Pages with maps
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
6m ago - Sedridor
44m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
44m ago - Hewatt
59m ago - Hewatt
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 3 April 2025, at 11:22.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view