 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

A Night at the Theatre (#149)





Released | 3 June 2021 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Mod Ed



A Night at the Theatre is a stand-alone quest in which the player assists the Mysterious Stranger in obtaining information about Verzik Vitur and the Theatre of Blood , culminating in completing a run of the Theatre.

While the Theatre is normally quite difficult, the quest offers the option of being able to play in Entry Mode, which is considerably reduced in difficulty and is intended to have the player learn the mechanics of the raid.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | You can start this quest by talking to the Mysterious Stranger inside Ver Sinhaza, south-east of Meiyerditch. Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Medium

Description | The Mysterious Stranger lurks outside of the mighty Theatre of Blood, the centrepiece of Ver Sinhaza. This shadowy figure has a new request for you – to humiliate a vampyre noble by the name of Lady Verzik Vitur. Take on the challenges that lie within the Theatre to reach her and bring a blush to her bloodless face!

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: A Taste of Hope Darkness of Hallowvale In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost

Items required | Ivandis flail or Blisterwood flail Saw ( crystal saw also works) Ghostspeak amulet ( Morytania legs 2 or better also work) Any axe besides the blessed axe

Recommended | 95 Combat level Stamina or Energy Potions Drakan's medallion Anti-venom or 2 doses of antipoison to cure venom. Additional antipoison when fighting the hespori . Access to fairy rings for quick access to the Nature Grotto . Druid pouch to protect food whilst in Mort Myre Swamp , or have lit the Fire of Dehumidification High-end combat equipment with the ability to poison or venom, and high healing food. Bringing all combat styles is highly recommended.

Enemies to defeat | Vyrewatch (Level 105) Several venomous araxyte (Levels 96 and 146) (can be avoided) Hespori (Level 302) The Maiden of Sugadinti Pestilent Bloat Nylocas Vasilias Sotetseg Xarpus Verzik Vitur

League notes | Morytania ✓ — location requirement

Behind The Scenes [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to the Mysterious Stranger by the entrance to Ver Sinhaza . He will tell players about the information he has gathered about Verzik Vitur through mercenaries who've survived the Theatre of Blood ; specifically, her unique abilities, which are unheard of among vampyres , and the method in which she acquired them.

One of the observations the Mysterious Stranger has is from a mercenary who claimed a set of purple spiders eggs fell out of Verzik, and discovered the eggs were of a variant of nylocas , a species of arachnid from the vampyre's homeworld of Vampyrium , that has not been documented before.

In order to find out more information about them, you are asked to retrieve the corpse of Ranis Drakan , who you killed during the events of A Taste of Hope , so that the Stranger can relive his memories and attempt to find useful information.

Ranis Drakan is buried in a crypt beneath Ver Sinhaza, whose entrance can be found just north of the Stranger; bring a saw and an Ivandis flail or blisterwood flail , as you'll need to kill a vyrewatch . Head down these stairs, and kill a vyrewatch to obtain a crypt key , which is used to open the gate to Ranis' coffin. Search the coffin to cut off Ranis' head , and return to the Stranger to hand him the head. The Stranger and you will then view one of Ranis' memories, where he gifts Verzik some spider eggs from a nest of araxytes , another unique species of arachnids, north of Darkmeyer , to assist her in her nylocas breeding program.

After viewing the memory, the Stranger will ask you to investigate the spider cave and recover some of their eggs. Head north-west of Slepe to the cave entrance found there, and enter the nest. Walk north towards the end of the nest to find a corpse just behind a large egg sac, and search it for a sticky note . When read, the note mentions Daer Krand will have some sulphuric acid that would be able to burn through the egg sac.

Daer Krand can be found within the Sisterhood Sanctuary , a large subterranean complex beneath Slepe . The entrance to the Sanctuary can be found in the building next to the church. Once players climb down the stairs, walk east towards the main area of the Sanctuary, and make your way upstairs in the Sanctuary's eastern wing, just north of The Nightmare 's arena. Talk to him about sulphuric acid , and you'll inform him that his assistant has died trying to obtain some spider eggs. In exchange for bringing him news regarding his assistant, he will give you a vial of sulphuric acid.

Head back to the spider cave and use the sulphuric acid on the egg sac to obtain some strange spider eggs . You will be attacked by multiple level 96 and 146 araxytes , which can inflict venom starting at 8 damage. They cannot be killed without a Slayer level of 92 or higher, though they do not need to be fought and can be simply ignored with Protect from Melee . simply teleport to Ver Sinhaza using Drakan's medallion , and cure your venom afterwards. Talk to the Mysterious Stranger to view more of Ranis' memories. In these memories, you will see the results of the araxyte eggs Verzik was gifted, where she uses them to breed two new variants of nylocas . Needing regenerative abilities to be bred onto the nylocas, Ranis advises Verzik to try using the bark of a hespori , a rare carnivorous plant bred by Queen Efaritay , who used them as living weapons against the vampyres in defence of Hallowvale during the God Wars .

Verzik shows Ranis a Nylocas Athanatos, a result of her Nylocas breeding program. Verzik shows Ranis a Nylocas Vasilias, also a result of her breeding program.

Get Into The Grove [ edit | edit source ]

To find out more about the role of the hespori in the creation of the Theatre 's monsters, you will need to acquire some bark from the plant. You will recall Filliman Tarlock , now a Nature Spirit, who might be able to help you find one. Contact the Nature Spirit Filliman Tarlock in his grotto ( fairy ring code B I P ).

Make your way to the Nature Grotto within Mort Myre Swamp , and ask Filliman about the hespori. He explains that they are very rare, and that you can find one "to the north-east, on a small island in the swamp". Exit the Grotto and head east to an island across the swamp just west of Castle Drakan . Cross the stepping stone on the island's west side and attempt to chop the hespori . The fight is similar to the one against the hespori that players grow in the Farming Guild . One slight difference is that the flowers in this fight do not always die in one hit. Should players die during the fight, their items will be placed in a gravestone just outside the instance, like a normal death.

After killing the hespori, chop it to obtain a hespori bark , and return to the Mysterious Stranger to view more of Ranis' memories, where Verzik shows Ranis the final result of her breeding program: the Nylocas Queen . Though small, it proceeds to bite her but surprisingly dies immediately afterwards, much to her disappointment.

Though the Stranger concludes that the Nylocas Queen's bite was responsible for Verzik's new abilities, and that he has the necessary assets to work on weapons and techniques to use against her, you believe that there are some missing information that could clarify her transition. With no more memories from Ranis that prove useful, the Stranger is forced to enter the Theatre of Blood, and asks you to help him reach Verzik so he can make contact with her to gain her memories.

Verzik talks to Ranis about "the nylocas to end all nylocas". Verzik shows Ranis the Queen Nylocas.

The Curtain Opens [ edit | edit source ]

At this point in the quest, you must complete the Theatre of Blood raid to assist the Mysterious Stranger. If you have already completed the Theatre of Blood (any mode) at least once, you will be given the option to skip this part of the quest.

Though the normal raid is considered fairly difficult for the average player, you can complete the Theatre's Entry Mode, where the bosses have drastically reduced stats and less punishing mechanics. For a guide on how to complete the Theatre of Blood in Entry Mode, see here .

You will have to defeat 6 bosses to progress:

The Maiden of Sugadinti Pestilent Bloat Nylocas Vasilias Sotetseg Xarpus Verzik Vitur

Like in the normal Theatre, the bosses must all be defeated in one session; leaving the raid means it must be started over. If played in entry mode, the bosses have significantly reduced stats, and players are given unlimited attempts to defeat the bosses.

In entry mode, your health and prayer are replenished after defeating each boss, meaning that it may be wise to avoid eating to full if a boss is almost dead. Keep this in mind as you progress through the Theatre.

After defeating Verzik , she will transform into a bat and flee, but not before the Mysterious Stranger touches her and attempts to gain access to her memories. After receiving your rewards from completing the Theatre of Blood in the treasure vault, return to the Stranger at the Theatre's entrance via the teleport crystal .

The Curtain Closes [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to the Mysterious Stranger once more, and you'll both view a memory not from Verzik, but from Vulcan Orvoros , who was Verzik's doctor and wrote a record on her illness after the bite from the Nylocas Queen. It is revealed that after the nylocas bite, a Nylocas Queen had been growing inside of her, eventually emerging from her body and killing her. The horrified Doctor Orvoros, who witnessed the queen's birth, was killed shortly after.

The Stranger concludes the Verzik Vitur you fought in the Theatre was not actually Verzik, but the Nylocas Queen, who plans to overthrow the vampyres and rule Morytania in their stead. The Stranger will then explain his associates are all made up, and he has been on a mission for his master. Deeming you trustworthy, he will put you in contact with this master, who will explain that you've gathered all the information they need to combat the nylocas threat. He will then instruct the Stranger to reward you for the work you have done.

Verzik, now obese after the nylocas bite. The Nylocas Queen emerges from Verzik's body. The player speaks to the Mysterious Master, Sugadinti .

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points Four antique lamps , each offering 20,000 experience in Attack , Strength , Defence , Ranged , Magic , or Hitpoints at level 50 or above. If players completed the quest before 28 July 2021 and have already used the original two antique lamps that were rewarded, they will only receive two additional antique lamp upon re-completing the quest.

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

28 August 2024 ( update | poll ) | Araxytes featured in the quest had their combat stats increased, and now require 92 Slayer in order to be harmed.

1 March 2023 ( update | poll ) | Several changes to Entry Mode which made it (and therefore this quest) easier to complete, including unlimited retries, the removal of the 100,000 GP death fee, reduced boss HP scaling for larger parties, and parties gaining some supplies in the form of extra bandages after a wipe.

30 November 2022 ( update | poll ) | 4 experience lamps are given after completing this quest instead of 3.

28 July 2021 ( update ) | The quest was completely reworked due to player feedback; originally, the quest consisted only of completing the Theatre of Blood and was automatically completed to any player who had completed a raid before the quest release. With this update, any completions of the quest were reset and all players have to complete the reworked quest. In addition, three antique lamps are now rewarded instead of two.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

After seeing the creation of Nylocas Vasilias , if the player has grown a Hespori before this quest, the player's character will mention to the Mysterious Stranger that they have grown one.

v • t • e A Night at the Theatre

NPCs | Mysterious Stranger Vyre Orator Ranis Drakan Daer Krand Nature Spirit Vulcan Orvoros Nylocas Queen Sugadinti

Enemies | Vyrewatch Araxyte Hespori Flower Nylocas Athanatos Hagios Ischyros Matomenos Toxobolos Theatre Bosses The Maiden of Sugadinti ( Blood spawn ) Pestilent Bloat Nylocas Vasilias Sotetseg Xarpus Verzik Vitur |  | Vyrewatch Araxyte Hespori Flower | Nylocas | Athanatos Hagios Ischyros Matomenos Toxobolos | Theatre Bosses | The Maiden of Sugadinti ( Blood spawn ) Pestilent Bloat Nylocas Vasilias Sotetseg Xarpus Verzik Vitur

 | Vyrewatch Araxyte Hespori Flower

Nylocas | Athanatos Hagios Ischyros Matomenos Toxobolos

Theatre Bosses | The Maiden of Sugadinti ( Blood spawn ) Pestilent Bloat Nylocas Vasilias Sotetseg Xarpus Verzik Vitur

Items | Crypt key Ranis' head Sticky note Sulphuric acid Strange spider eggs Hespori bark Entry Mode Theatre Bandages Message Dawnbringer Books Serafina's diary The butcher Arachnids of vampyrium The shadow realm The wild hunt Verzik vitur - patient record |  | Crypt key Ranis' head Sticky note Sulphuric acid Strange spider eggs Hespori bark | Entry Mode Theatre | Bandages Message Dawnbringer | Books | Serafina's diary The butcher Arachnids of vampyrium The shadow realm The wild hunt Verzik vitur - patient record

 | Crypt key Ranis' head Sticky note Sulphuric acid Strange spider eggs Hespori bark

Entry Mode Theatre | Bandages Message Dawnbringer

Books | Serafina's diary The butcher Arachnids of vampyrium The shadow realm The wild hunt Verzik vitur - patient record

Related | Quick guide Transcript Antique lamp Theatre of Blood