 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

A Porcine of Interest (#146)





Released | 10 September 2020 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Mod Mack , Mod Ry



A Porcine of Interest is a quest designed to introduce players to the Slayer skill. It added a new Slayer master , Spria , to the game as well as a new monster, the Sourhog .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Read the town notice board in Draynor Village , behind Fortunato 's Wine Shop . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Very Short

Description | Ah, the Falador Farm - filled with cabbages, cows, and even a sleepy sheepdog. A peaceful place, where you can learn to churn butter, give a dog a bone, or purchase various Farming supplies. What was once a place of happiness, joy and wholesome dairy goods has of late become dominated by a vile presence. Each morning Sarah wakes to find her crops destroyed, her cows cowering, and her loyal sheepdog looking... sheepish. She's had enough, but she thinks she's got the culprit on the trot. Can you help her track down... A Porcine of Interest?

Requirements | None

Items required | Rope Knife or a slash weapon (except abyssal whip , abyssal tentacle , or dragon claws ) (obtainable during the quest)

Recommended | 20 Combat level Stamina or energy potions Combat equipment and some food Amulet of Glory for fast travel to Draynor Village Explorer's ring 2 or above for fast travel to the Falador farm 31 Agility and a Chronicle or Combat bracelet to the Champions' Guild for a shortcut

Enemies to defeat | Sourhog (level 37)

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Begin the quest by reading the notice board on the wall behind Fortunato 's Wine Stall . A bounty on a "troublesome monster" by Sarah will catch your eye. Begin the quest, and make your way to Sarah in the Falador Farm.

Talk to Sarah , who explains that she was making her monthly delivery to The Sheared Ram when she was attacked by a hulking monster near the crossroads north of Draynor Village , where she lost her cart of farm produce.

The scene of the crime [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to the crossroads north of Draynor Village and investigate the cart there. Then, follow the trail of farming produce and broken dead trees north-east until you reach a strange hole next to the River Lum . Use your rope on the hole and climb down.

Upon entering the cave, walk to the very end of the cave, where you'll find a skeleton. Inspect the skeleton to find that it has been gnawed clean, alongside a scrawled note:

“ | This is what I get for exploring uncharted caves. Looks like I'm trapped down here - My entry rope slipped off and now there's nowhere to go but deeper. I think I'd be safer just waiting and praying for rescue. If anyone finds this, get out while you can. | ”

Suddenly, a Pig Thing attacks you, spitting acid and rendering you unconscious. Luckily, Spria arrives and brings you to her house.
NOTE: Chasing a kitten during the cutscene will end the cutscene returning you to the beginning of the cave with no way to recover the lost kitten. Clicking the ground during the cutscene will also return you to the beginning.

Speak to Spria , who tells you that the monster is a Sourhog , a creature made through a magical experiment and whose saliva is extremely acidic. She will give you a pair of reinforced goggles to protect you from its acid attack, and tells you that its thick hide gives it a resistance to slashing and magical attacks. She will tell you to kill the sourhog and claim Sarah's bounty, and return to her once you do so.

Bringing Home the Bacon [ edit | edit source ]

Return to the Sourhog Cave , and defeat the Sourhog. It is level 37, so lower levelled players should bring some food. As stated by Spria, it is weak to stab and ranged-style weapons. To kill it with rings of recoil , 1 damage must be dealt by the player for kill credit.  This particular Sourhog is immune to poison.

Upon killing the Sourhog, use a knife or slashing weapon to obtain a Sourhog foot , which you'll need as proof to collect Sarah's bounty. If you do not have a knife or slashing weapon, you may use the bronze scimitar that spawns near the skeleton at the end of the cave.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Sarah, where she'll reward you with 5,000 coins and tell you a strange woman in a hood came to ask her about the job. The woman she refers to is Spria, whom you were told to return to once you collected your bounty.

Speak to Spria in her house in Draynor Village to finish the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 5,000 coins 1,000 Slayer experience 30 Slayer reward points Access to the Sourhog Cave and Sourhog slayer tasks from Spria Existing slayer helmets will have reinforced goggles added to them Spria will now be able to give you slayer tasks

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Safety in Numbers | Unlocked in the Sourhog Cave | 

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The quest's name is a play on the term "A person of interest", referring to someone who authorities believe might have information pertinent to a crime. "Porcine" (pronounced similar to person) means like a pig (in the same way feline means like a cat) If the player is wearing gnome goggles when attacked by the Pig Thing, the player will say " My eyes! The goggles do nothing! ", a reference to The Simpsons episode " Radioactive Man ". If you examine the Sourhog after killing it, the examine text will read "The pigger they are...", a reference to the phrase "The bigger they are, the harder they fall". If you kill the Sourhog with a katana , your character will say "Nothing personal, pig." after killing it. This is a reference to a copypasta .

v • t • e A Porcine of Interest

NPCs | Sarah Spria Enemies Sourhog (A Porcine of Interest) |  | Sarah Spria | Enemies | Sourhog (A Porcine of Interest)

 | Sarah Spria

Enemies | Sourhog (A Porcine of Interest)

Items | Reinforced goggles Sourhog foot

Related | Quick guide Transcript Damaged cart Notice board Sourhog Cave Safety in Numbers