 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

A Tail of Two Cats (#87)





Released | 26 September 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Dragonkin , #2

Lead developer(s) | Jonathan S



A Tail of Two Cats is an intermediate quest about the life of Bob the Cat . It is the first quest to feature Robert the Strong and introduces the Dragonkin .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Unferth at his house in Burthorpe . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | Missing: small black cat, answers to the name of Bob.
Last seen on the 19th of Bennath. Please contact Unferth in Burthorpe.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Icthlarin's Little Helper Gertrude's Cat

Items required | Cat or kitten ( Hellcats work. Be sure to bring fish for your kitten if you're using one.) Catspeak amulet 5 death runes Chocolate cake (made with cake and chocolate bar or chocolate dust with 50 ) Logs Tinderbox Bucket of milk Shears 4 potato seeds Rake Seed dibber (or partial completion of the Farming portion of Barbarian Training ) Vial of water Desert shirt (obtainable during quest) or Druid's robe top (The desert outfit does not work) Desert robe (obtainable during quest) or Druid's robe (The desert outfit does not work)

Recommended | Fast travel to Burthorpe ( Games Necklace or Burthorpe Games Room minigame teleport) Fast travel to Varrock ( Varrock teleport ) Fast travel to Sophanem ( Magic carpets , Nardah teleport or Pharaoh's Sceptre ) or fairy ring AKP and run north. (Fairy ring requires partial completion of Beneath Cursed Sands and 62 ) Ring of charos (a) for discounted magic carpet rides or hard Desert Diary completed Waterskin (one is enough) or a Circlet of water Stamina Potion or full Graceful outfit

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Desert ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Cat hunt [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: a cat or kitten, 5 death runes, a catspeak amulet

Recommended: a Varrock teleport, Games necklace

You do not need to have your kitten or cat following the entire time—simply keep it in your inventory throughout the quest, and it will jump out to participate in necessary dialogue, and then you can pick it back up again to avoid it becoming overgrown. Equip your catspeak amulet , and start the quest by talking to Unferth , who can be found in east Burthorpe in the house south of Dunstan . After starting, talk to Hild in the nearby house north-east of Unferth . She will enchant your catspeak amulet if you give her five death runes . You can now open it to find Bob 's location. It works somewhat like a compass - when facing north, click the left or right whiskers to control the interface and point it in the right direction. When you see the central cat's eyes light up, go in that direction to find Bob. He can be anywhere in RuneScape . However it is recommended to pick a common spot where Bob is found, and then world hop. He is commonly found at the Varrock anvils (south of the Varrock west bank , not the armour shop anvils), or the Catherby Archery Shop.

List of locations:

Outside Burthorpe Castle , between the castle and its outer wall Outside the pub in Barbarian Village Cow Pen outside the Crafting Guild North wall of the Warriors' Guild in Burthorpe North wall of the Heroes' Guild in Burthorpe Next to Turael 's house The house just north of Jatix's Herblore Shop in Taverley By the south wall of the witch's house in Taverley North of Goblin Village near the mind altar Lady of the Lake 's peninsula North-East from Dark Wizards Tower, South-West from Falador Agility Shortcut in its West Wall, in the woods White Knights' Castle in Falador Outside the White Knights' Castle Moat (north-east) Rising Sun Inn in West Falador Falador Party Room Entrance of the Mining Guild in Falador Farm south of Falador Hetty 's house in Rimmington Port Sarim docks (near quest marker) Wise Old Man 's house in Draynor Village Spria 's house in Draynor Village Inside the jail east of Draynor Village Near the entrance to the H.A.M. Hideout Draynor Manor (north of the manor but may be within the fenced area) Western Anvils in Varrock Inside the Grand Exchange Church east of Varrock Palace Inside the Varrock Estate agent house Chicken farm north of Lumbridge (east of river) Between the chicken farm and cow farm north of Lumbridge White Wolf Mountain (south-east) White Wolf Mountain (north-east) White Wolf Mountain (north-west) Catherby docks Catherby archery shop Near Seers' Village bank, in the building for Elemental Workshop Seers' Village graveyard Edmond 's house in East Ardougne Northern bank in East Ardougne GPDT Delivery in East Ardougne by docks Clocktower south of East Ardougne Inside General shop in Port Khazard Citharede Abbey mine Mage Training Arena (south-west) Mining site at Giants' Plateau Inside the Onion/Cabbage patch in Rimmington

Strong lineage [ edit | edit source ]

After finding Bob , talk to him. He will tell you that he's in love with Neite , but she has no idea what his origins are so she's not interested in him. Talk to Gertrude (located south of the Cooking Guild, West of Varrock) about Bob's family. While there, your cat will tell you to research a warrior called Robert the Strong .

In the Varrock Palace library, talk to Reldo . He will tell you that Robert the Strong was much taller and stronger than any other man of his time. His longbow was six feet tall, and he fought immortal monsters known as the Dragonkin . He fought alongside a black panther.

Return to Bob ( who might have changed location, use the enchanted Catspeak amulet to locate him ). You and your cat will try to convince Bob he is Robert the Strong. Your cat will remind you of the fact that the Sphinx knows how you were hypnotised, so perhaps it can hypnotise Bob.

Hidden memories [ edit | edit source ]

Recommended items: Nardah teleport AND coins for the magic carpets (and ring of charos for discounted rides) OR Desert clothing AND waterskins AND 80gp if you are buying the desert outfit in Sophanem Additionally you will need a games necklace if you decide to skip the cutscene.

You can use the Pharoh's sceptre to get here faster (Jalsavrah teleport is in Sophanem).

If you haven't gotten the desert outfit, you can buy it from Raetul and Co's Cloth Store. , which can be found east of the Sphinx .

Talk to the Sphinx in Sophanem . A good way of getting there is to take a magic carpet to Pollnivneach from Shantay Pass and then to Sophanem using Pollnivneach's southern carpet - the Sphinx is south-east of the northern pyramid . Ask her for help, and after a bit, you'll have the option to view a five-minute cutscene or get a brief summary of what happens. If you choose the brief summary, you won't be offered the option of being teleported to Burthorpe .

During the cutscene, the Sphinx will teleport Bob to Sophanem and hypnotise him. Bob, thinking back on his earliest memories, recalls himself as Robert the Strong . He sees himself looking over at a tower beside Odysseus , followed by a battle between them and a Dragonkin . The Dragonkin manages to slay the panther and weaken Robert, however Robert manages to kill the Dragonkin.

Bob the Cat hypnotised by the Sphinx The Dragonkin on top of its castle. Odysseus fighting the Dragonkin, before being killed. Robert continues to fight the Dragonkin after Odysseus dies. Robert finally kills the Dragonkin

After the cutscene, the Sphinx teleports Neite to Bob, who will be impressed and fall in love with him. Bob will tell you to keep his owner busy by doing his chores, and you will be given the option to teleport back to Burthorpe (only if you choose to hear the long summary), or stay in Sophanem.

Bob's list [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Catspeak amulet (wear it), A vial of water, logs, a tinderbox, a bucket of milk, a chocolate cake, shears, a rake, a seed dibber, 4 potato seeds, Desert shirt or Druid's robe top or Medical gown, Desert robe or Druid's robe.

Recommended items: Varrock teleports, a games necklace

Go back to Unferth 's house in Burthorpe and do these chores :

Tend garden: Using your rake, weed Unferth's patch in the yard just north of the house and plant four potato seeds . You now need to wait about 15 – 35 minutes for them to grow. You do not need to water or compost the patch. If this is the only remaining chore, you will be alerted by your character or your cat/kitten saying all the chores are finished once the potatoes are done growing. Tidy house: Make Unferth's bed . This takes one click and is the easiest chore. Warm human: Use some logs on the fireplace and light it. Feed human: Use a bucket of milk and a chocolate cake on the table . Right click your cake! Do not eat it. A slice of cake does not work. Make sure it is the table with a cup and plate on it, NOT the one next to his bed. Tidy human: Use a pair of shears on Unferth to shave his hair. Note: The animation takes a couple of seconds, do not click away until he is bald.

After you've done all of this, talk to Unferth again. He'll tell you that he's very ill and must see a doctor or a nurse. Talk to the Apothecary in Varrock (located in the south-west of the city). He will tell you that Unferth is a hypochondriac - he thinks that he's sick all the time even though he really has been tested for illnesses and it's all in his head. You need to use a placebo on him - pick a doctor's hat or nurse hat from the Apothecary, and wear some white robes (princess robes and graceful outfit don't work).

Go back to Unferth's house, and give him a vial of water . His illness will clear up. Note: You can't be wielding a weapon/shield; otherwise, Unferth won't believe you.

Love-cats [ edit | edit source ]

Using your catspeak amulet , find Bob again and talk to him. Log out and log in again if he is not in the same place as before, he will reappear. He may have moved to another of the other locations mentioned above, or he may be in the same location as before. You'll see a cutscene showing all the adventures Bob takes Neite on, including a magic carpet ride in Sophanem , a conversation between Bob and the King Black Dragon (a player spoof known as R4ng3rNo0b889 also tries to attack the dragon, but the dragon kills him instantly), and a journey on the Fishing Trawler ship.

After the cutscene, you will be teleported in front of Unferth 's house. Talk to him to get a present from Bob, finishing the quest.

 | Bob's on Holiday

The music which plays during the adventures of Bob and Neite.



Bob and Neite in Sophanem Bob talking to the King Black Dragon R4ng3rno0b889 is killed by the King Black Dragon. Bob and Neite sailing.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points A Doctor's hat or Nurse hat (you can switch by destroying your hat and requesting a new one from the Apothecary) A present containing: Two antique lamps worth 2,500 experience each in skills of your choice over 30 A Mouse toy (can be used to play with your cat, and functions as a fun weapon at the Emir's Arena ) Completing this quest awards the player with 5 Kudos which can be claimed by talking to Historian Minas in the Varrock Museum .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of A Tail of Two Cats is required for the following:

Dragon Slayer II While Guthix Sleeps

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Bob's on Holiday | Unlocked during the cutscene showing the various adventures of Bob and Neite . | 

Strange Place | Unlocked during the cutscene showing the battle at the Dragonkin Castle . | 

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

6 October 2016 ( update ) | Talking to various NPCs in Tale of Two Cats/Icthlarin's Little Helper quests while other pets are visible displays the correct dialogue.

9 May 2013 ( update ) | A cutscene in A Tail of Two Cats has been fixed.

Gallery [ edit | edit source ]

An unused model of Bob, wearing a bowtie at his wedding. An unused model of Neite, wearing a wedding veil at her wedding. An unused model of Beite, presumably Bob and Neite's son. An unused model of a gnome, intended to be used during an uncoded cutscene. An unused model of a gnome holding a Daguerreotype camera, intended to be used during an uncoded cutscene. An unused model of Odysseus as a ghost.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The quest had a scrapped cutscene which included Bob and Neite 's wedding (with Neite wearing a wedding veil and Bob wearing a white bow tie), as well as several other unused NPCs, such as their son Beite, two gnomes (with one wielding a Daguerreotype camera) and Odysseus ' ghost. As the developer of the quest resigned before finishing it, the cutscene was never developed [1] , but the NPCs remained in the game code. If you have completed Dragon Slayer II , upon telling Juna a story about this quest, Juna will respond with dialogue related to the events of Dragon Slayer II. This is unique in that Dragon Slayer II is the only quest that Juna has two lines of dialogue for, and this is her only dialogue that pertains to two quests that are independent of each other. The name of the quest "A Tail of Two Cats" is a reference to the Charles Dickens novel A Tale of Two Cities . When you first speak to Bob he says "Love looks not with the eyes but with the mind. And therefore is winged Cupid painted blind". This line is spoken by Helena to Lysander in Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream . In the second cutscene, there is a spoof scene of the film Titanic ; Bob is standing on the bow of the ship and says "I'm king of Gielinor!" Upon examining the potato plants in Unferth's house, it says "You say Potato, I say Poh-tar-to". This is a reference to a 1937 film Shall We Dance . When starting the quest and asking Unferth when they had last seen Bob, they respond with "Well he usually comes back to me once a week. Usually on a Wednesday a bit before lunchtime". This is a reference to game updates which usually happen on a Wednesday at this time as Bob spawns next to Unferth, explaining why Bob returns once a week when the servers are rebooted with a game update. Just before getting hypnotized, Bob responds to the claim he is Robert the Strong with "I'm just this cat you know". This is a reference to The Hitchiker's Guide to the Galaxy , where Zaphod Beeblebrox (the self-declared most interesting being in the universe) is described by his psychiatrist as being "just zis guy, you know?".

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e A Tail of Two Cats

NPCs | Apothecary Bob Gertrude Neite Hild Reldo Sphinx Unferth King Black Dragon Robert the Strong Odysseus Dragonkin R4ng3rNo0b889

Items | Catspeak amulet(e) Chores Nurse hat Doctor's hat Recipe

Rewards | Present Antique lamp Mouse toy

Scenery | Bed Bookcase Fireplace Table Unferth's patch

Locations | Burthorpe Dragonkin Castle

Music | Bob's on Holiday Strange Place

Related | Quick guide Transcript Unferth's patch