 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Animal Magnetism (#116)





Released | 12 December 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Matt H



Animal Magnetism is a quest in which the player helps Ava , a scientist living in Draynor Manor . Completion of the quest rewards access to Ava's devices , robust ranged cape slot equipment that attract a percentage of ammunition fired during Ranged combat.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Ava in Draynor Manor . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | Draynor Manor has a new resident and, adventurers rejoice, she is a damsel in distress. Far from being Sleeping Beauty, she finds the Manor's beds not to her liking and is suffering from insomniac nights. If you fancy yourself able to aid Ava in her search for a good night's sleep, who knows what the budding scientist will produce as a reward?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: The Restless Ghost Ernest the Chicken Priest in Peril 18 Slayer ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 19 Crafting ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 30 Ranged ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 35 Woodcutting ( not boostable ) ( required to start )

Items required | Mithril axe (required to obtain the blessed axe ; no other type of axe will do) 5 iron bars Ghostspeak amulet ( Morytania legs will not work) 20 ecto-tokens (or 4 bones , 4 buckets and 4 pots to gain the tokens) Hammer Hard leather Holy symbol Polished buttons

Recommended | 10 more ecto-tokens to purchase an undead chicken that you can keep Stamina or energy potion Fast travel to several locations Draynor Manor ( Draynor Manor Teleport or amulet of glory to Draynor Village) Port Phasmatys ( Ectophial , charter ships or fairy ring code A L Q ) Slayer Tower ( Slayer ring , Fenkenstrain's Castle Teleport , Kharyrll Teleport , Salve Graveyard Teleport or fairy ring code C K S ) Burthorpe ( Games necklace , Burthorpe Games Room grouping teleport, combat bracelet to the Warriors' Guild, Taverley teleport or Teleport to House if it is in Taverley) Rimmington ( Rimmington teleport , Teleport to House if it is in Rimmington, skills necklace to the Crafting Guild or Rat Pits grouping teleport)

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | Mithril axe ( 51 Smithing ( boostable ) ); 28 Thieving ( boostable ) for the Isle of Souls dungeon chest ; 60 Woodcutting ( boostable ) to purchase axe from Perry's Chop-chop Shop in the Woodcutting Guild ; access to fairy rings ( B K Q ) and killing tree spirits , blue dragons, or king sand crabs) Holy symbol ( 31 Prayer ( not boostable ) )

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Morytania ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

To start the quest, talk to Ava on the ground floor in the west wing of Draynor Manor . You'll have to search a bookcase to open a secret door to get to her.

You will find out she is the new assistant of the professor at the top floor of the manor. She tells you she will make you something if you can get her some things to fix her bed. She will ask you for two undead chickens .

Undead chickens [ edit | edit source ]

Travel to the undead chicken farm west of the Ectofuntus with your ghostspeak amulet and ecto-tokens , and talk to Alice . If you do not have enough ecto-tokens, see the Ectofuntus page on how to make them. The simplest way to reach Alice is using an ectophial (after completing Ghosts Ahoy ). The farm is also just north of fairy ring A L Q .

After finishing the conversation with Alice, talk to her husband's ghost, Malcolm , who roams the farm near the undead cows . Go back and forth between Alice and her husband until Malcolm asks you to speak with her directly. In order to make that happen, you must travel to the Old Crone and have her make a modified ghostspeak amulet for Malcolm. The Old Crone resides east of the Slayer Tower . Speak to her while still wearing the ghostspeak amulet, and she will give you a crone-made amulet . You will make a remark about Ghosts Ahoy if you have completed that quest.

Deliver the amulet to the husband at the farm, and talk to him again. An amusing cutscene will play, involving a fake player character named Cow31337Killer . Malcolm will then finally offer to sell you undead chickens (for 10 ecto-tokens each). Purchase two of them.

To collect ecto-tokens, run east to the Ectofuntus . Fill at least 4 empty buckets with slime by going down the trapdoor to the west of the Ectofuntus and continuing down to the slime pit. Crush at least 2 bones into empty pots for bonemeal with the bone grinder on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] , directly above the Ectofuntus. Worship the Ectofuntus in the middle of the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] , and collect the ecto-tokens by speaking to a ghost disciple with a amulet of ghostspeak or Morytania Legs 2 equipped.

 | Chicken cutscene

The music track that only plays during the quest's cutscene.



Magnet [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Ava and hand her the undead chickens . Wielding one of them during the conversation will lead to some humorous dialogue. Ava will now request a magnet .

Speak with the witch in a room nearby. She will give you a selected iron for 5 iron bars and instructions on how to turn the iron into a magnet. Travel to the centre of the mine north-east of Rimmington and use a hammer on the iron while facing north. This will turn it into a bar magnet .

Undead twigs [ edit | edit source ]

Head back to Ava with the magnet. You will be granted 50 Crafting experience when you give Ava the magnet. She will tell you she needs undead twigs from one of the undead trees around the manor . Attempt to cut one of these trees, and you will find it cannot be done with a regular axe. Return to Ava to ask her for a solution, and she will refer you to Turael in Burthorpe , who has apparently been using his Slayer skills to figure out a way to defeat the undead trees.

Talk to Turael. Make sure you don't accidentally request an unwanted Slayer task from him. Turael will grant you a blessed axe in exchange for a mithril axe and a holy symbol . He will not accept another type of axe. With the blessed axe, return to Draynor Manor and chop an undead tree until you receive some undead twigs .

Translating the notes [ edit | edit source ]

Deliver the twigs to Ava. She will tell you she has almost completed her invention, but some of the research notes she has gathered still need to be translated. You can translate these notes by selecting the correct buttons that appear on screen. You can use the picture for the solution.

Once you have ungarbled the notes, talk to Ava , and she will tell you the last items she needs to finish the device: some hard leather and polished buttons . Combine these two items with the pattern given to you to create a container . Hand the container over to Ava to complete the quest.

Congratulations! Quest completed!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,000 Crafting experience 1,000 Fletching experience 1,000 Slayer experience 2,500 Woodcutting experience Ava's attractor if your Ranged level is less than 50, or Ava's accumulator if your Ranged level is 50 or higher The ability to trade with Ava and purchase her devices

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Animal Magnetism is required for the following:

Dragon Slayer II Lumbridge & Draynor Medium Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

21 April 2016 ( update ) | A message given in Animal Magnetism now states the correct Crafting level requirement.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The quest's name is a reference to a phrase of the same name , referring to either sexual attractiveness or a hypothesised natural force in all living beings.

v • t • e Animal Magnetism

NPCs | Ava Alice Old crone Malcolm Cow31337Killer Sneaky undead fowl Witch Turael

Items | Crone-made amulet Undead chicken Selected iron Bar magnet Blessed axe Undead twigs Research notes Translated notes Polished buttons A pattern A container

Rewards | Ava's devices Ava's attractor Ava's accumulator Ava's assembler | Ava's devices | Ava's attractor Ava's accumulator Ava's assembler

Ava's devices | Ava's attractor Ava's accumulator Ava's assembler

Locations | Alice's farm Draynor Manor Rimmington mining site

Related | Quick guide Transcript