 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

At First Light (#162)





Released | 20 March 2024 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Unknown ( edit )



At First Light is a quest in Varlamore that introduces players to the Hunter Guild .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Guildmaster Apatura at the Hunter Guild . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Learn about the role of the Hunter Guild and unlock higher tier rumours.

Requirements | 46 Hunter ( not boostable ) 30 Herblore ( not boostable ) 27 Construction ( not boostable ) Completion of the following quests: Children of the Sun Eagles' Peak

Items required | Needle or costume needle (one needle spawns in Pellem's Fur Store nearby) Box trap (can be bought from Imia's Supplies nearby) Hammer (obtainable during quest) 2 jerboa tails (obtainable during quest)

Recommended | Stamina potion Catspeak amulet for extra dialogue

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Unlocking Varlamore ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

A Missing Fox [ edit | edit source ]

Take the Quetzal Primio just outside of the Varrock east gate to go to Civitas illa Fortis . If Twilight's Promise is completed you can use Renu right next to where you land to quickly go to the Hunter Guild , otherwise run just south-west of the city. Speak to Guildmaster Apatura in the Hunter Guild , in the building with the oven. Ask her if she needs any help, and she will tell direct you to Guild Scribe Verity . Verity is found in the Burrow , the guild's underground pub, which can be accessed via the stairs inside the large tree.

Speak to Verity behind the counter. She will introduce you to the guild's rumours system, then tell you that she and Gilman are concerned about Fox , who left without informing anyone of his whereabouts. She will add that Wolf had put him up to the hunt, and asks that you speak to her for information.

Wolf will tell you that she asked Fox to make some repairs to the bed of Kiko , the grey cat nearby, which has recently become tatty, and assumes he's out to get the required materials. To distract Kiko so you can inspect his bed, Wolf will give you a toy mouse ; wind it up and then use it on Kiko. Once Kiko is distracted, attempt to check the cat bed. You will find that the bed is made of a fluffy fur and that someone has cut off a small bit of it.

Be warned, if you use your cat to catch the toy mouse it will disappear and you will have to find another one yourself.

Talk to Wolf again, who will tell you that Fox has likely gone to Outer Fortis to meet a contact who stocks good quality fabrics, and guesses that he is hunting pyre foxes along the way there.

Fox Tracking [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to the Avium Savannah mining site, just south-east of the guild. Fox will be found, laying injured, on the south-east side of the crevice there. Dazed, he tells you that he was attacked and cannot move, and that to help him recover, he'll need two plants to make a poultice, as well as a jerboa tail to hold them together.

The first plant can be found immediately west, as a brownish leafy bush ; pick a smooth leaf from it. The second plant is found by the western end of the Locus Oasis , also as a brownish rough-looking bush ; pick a sticky leaf from it. Lastly, catch an embertailed jerboa north of the Locus Oasis with a box trap for the tail; acquire two, as you'll need one for later.

Combine the three items to create the makeshift poultice , and return to Fox. He will feel better and tell you that he was attacked and knocked unconscious whilst on a hunt, and so cannot identify his attacker. However, he will ask that you deliver a fur sample to someone named Atza to acquire the fur needed for Kiko's bed.

Atza is found in one of the buildings just south-east of the South gate of Civitas illa Fortis (note: not the south-east gate), which contains a pile of equipment in the middle. She will have the fur, but needs to find it. There is a hammer spawn in the house directly north of here. Set up the aforementioned pile of equipment for her and finish the conversation to obtain the trimmed fur .

Bring the fur to Fox, who will ask that you let Wolf and Verity know that he's doing fine. He will ask that you repair Kiko's bed, as well as deliver his report to Verity.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Return to the Hunter Guild and deliver Fox's report to Verity in the Burrow pub, then repair Kiko's bed.

Lastly, speak to Guildmaster Apatura to finish the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 4,500 Hunter experience 800 Construction experience 500 Herblore experience Access to Master Tier Hunters' Rumours

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest. Click here for a transcript of the quest's journal entry.

v • t • e At First Light

NPCs | Guild Scribe Verity Guild Hunter Wolf (Master) Guildmaster Apatura Guild Hunter Fox Guild Hunter Kiko Atza

Items | Smooth leaf Sticky leaf Makeshift poultice Fur sample Trimmed fur Fox's report

Scenery | Cat bed Leafy bush Pile of equipment Rough-looking bush

Related | Quick guide Transcript Journal