 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Between a Rock... (#74)





Released | 21 March 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Vincent Van M



Between a Rock... is a quest about helping the old dwarf Dondakan , who is trying to access a legendary gold mine south of Keldagrim , but is unable to penetrate inside.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Dondakan the Dwarf at the Keldagrim south-west mine . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Hidden away from the fearsome trolls and the roaming Fremennik, the dwarves delve deep beneath the mountains in search for the ore they need to support their home of Keldagrim. One dwarf in particular, however, has for years been trying to crack open a rock that seems to be impervious to any material that he's tried on it. Convinced that solving the riddle of the rock will lead him to unimaginable wealth, he has spent the later part of his life on just this lump of stone. Help him out, but take care you don't end up in a tight spot!

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Dwarf Cannon Fishing Contest 30 Defence ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 40 Mining ( boostable ) 50 Smithing ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) The ability to defeat a level 75-125 enemy (depends on how much gold you mine)

Items required | A pickaxe 4 gold bars (You will need an extra bar and telegrab if you want to keep a golden cannonball for after the quest) A hammer An ammo mould (can be bought for 5 coins during the quest) or a double ammo mould ~830 coins (for cart and ferry)

Recommended | 50 Combat level Combat gear A Falador teleport A Combat bracelet (to teleport to the Monastery ) A Camelot Teleport Ring of charos (a) A lunar or dramen staff An Amulet of Glory for a teleport to Edgeville for the furnace Stamina Potion to reduce travel time

Enemies to defeat | Scorpion (s) (level 14) Arzinian Being of Bordanzan (level 75-125)

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Fremennik ✓ — location requirement Kandarin ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Don's rock [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: 4 coins or a ring of charos (a) .

Items recommended: Teleport to Falador or the Monastery .

Start the quest by going to the Keldagrim mines north-east to Rellekka . You can get there in several different ways:

Fairy ring code D K S , which can be found north-east of Rellekka . You can use the enchanted lyre for easy access, or, if your house is in Rellekka, you can also teleport there. Take the minecart from the Grand Exchange . If doing so, go north-west from the carts to the Dwarven Boatman and take the boat (free) to reach the ferryman at the entrance.

Once you've entered the cave, there will be a crack between two dwarf statues directly across from you, which you should enter. From there, talk to the Dwarven Ferryman ( not the boatman ) for a ride across the river, which will cost 2 coins or be free if you have a ring of charos (a) equipped.

Go east and around the rock wall and then go west until you reach and cross the bridge that leads to Dondakan 's Rock and his Dwarf Multicannon .

Speak to Dondakan to begin the quest. The necessary conversation options to do so are as follows:

"Why are you firing a cannon at a wall?" "So why were you trying to get through the rock again?" "Sounds interesting!"

Dondakan will then ask you to get further information about the rock and tell you to talk to the Librarian. Return to the other side of the river, paying 2 coins again or crossing for free with the ring. This time, speak with the Boatman to be taken to Keldagrim. If you have not started The Giant Dwarf , you will be presented with a small cutscene introducing the area. You will then be taken by guards, giving you the option to start The Giant Dwarf.

You can talk to the Librarian on the Western side of Keldagrim, but it won't do much other than specifying who to speak with. Instead, go into the western part of the Trading Consortium . Look for the area with an anvil on the minimap in the palace and speak with the engineer inside of the room it's located in. This is located within the large building not the anvil which is further west.

You will be told to speak with Rolad located in the eastern building at the Dwarven Mine entrance camp next to Ice Mountain . To get there, either teleport to Falador or the Monastery and walk the distance, use Ancient Magicks to teleport to Lassar, teleport to the Barbarian Village with a skull sceptre , or take the mine carts located in the south-eastern portion of Keldagrim for 150 coins (75 coins if you have the ring of charos (a)). If you took the carts, head south, east, then north and exit the mine.

Rolad is inside the eastern house at the camp. He will ask you to find the pages from a book giving you information about the rock.

Between the pages [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Armour, Weapons, food, pickaxe and 3 inventory slots.

All three pages can be obtained in the Dwarven Mine in any order. Note that the pages may require multiple attempts to be obtained:

The first page can be found by killing scorpions in the south-eastern area of the mines. (Try switching worlds if killing a scorpion doesn't give you page 1) Tip: Squeeze through the narrow crevice (level 42 Agility) to complete a medium Falador diary task when returning to Rolad from the SE area of the mine. You can find the second page by searching the mine carts along the tracks The third page is found by mining clay , copper , tin , or iron rocks inside the mine.

Return to Rolad when you have found all three pages , and he will give you the Dwarven lore .

Roald will ask you to give back the book because he want to study it. You can answer "Of course" or "Of course. (lie)" Choose to lie and read the book, and keep it for later . If you need an ammo mould , purchase it from Nulodion in the western house next door to Rolad.

Head back to Dondakan using one of the methods first used to reach him and speak with him until you get a short cutscene where he kicks the rock to no avail. He then tells you that he wants a material that is stronger than runite and granite . This is where your gold bars come in handy. Show him your gold bar by using it on him.

Go to any furnace with a gold bar and your cannonball ammo mould, and make a golden cannonball . The closest furnace on foot is the one in Rellekka, which you can use if you have completed The Fremennik Trials . However, it's much quicker to teleport. You can also find a furnace at Zanaris . Another option is to take the fairy ring to Edgeville, or head back to the mine carts in South-east Keldagrim and take Cart 3 to the Grand Exchange; then, use the furnace in Edgeville by using the shortcut from the Grand Exchange to Edgeville (21 Agility required). You can also use an amulet of glory to reach Edgeville, and take any above given option to return to Dondakan. Teleport to Falador also puts you a few steps from a furnace.

Tip: if you want a trophy cannonball in your bank, do not make multiple cannonballs at once with the drop trick since your character can only carry one at a time; the only way to carry more than one gold cannonball is to telegrab the cannonballs you dropped one by one.

When you are finished, give the cannonball to Dondakan by using it on him. When he fires it, the cannonball will disappear through the wall. He will then ask to fire you through the wall, but he needs the schematics in order to change the cannon to be able to fire a human. You will also need to make yourself a gold helmet (requires 50 Smithing) if you don't want your head to explode when you hit the wall.

Breakthrough design [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: 3 gold bars and a hammer.

Items recommended: Teleport to Camelot or Games necklace or 100 coins

Tip: Bring 3 extra gold bars if you want your own golden helmet.

There are a set of four (4) schematics:

The first schematic is given to you by Dondakan. The second one is given by the engineer you spoke to earlier back in Keldagrim, by the anvil in the western palace bottom floor. Before moving on, you can make your golden helmet by the anvil. The helmet weighs quite a bit so it's a good idea to get it in the bank before you move on. Tip: if you want a trophy golden helmet in your bank, drop them one by one, then telegrab them. Read to the last page of the Dwarven lore book, and you will find another schematic page . Teleport to Camelot , go east, and enter the shortcut that goes under White Wolf Mountain . (Or use a games necklace and walk south a bit and down a ladder ) Go to the small bar area, and speak with Khorvak . He will ask for a dwarven stout . You can take one off the table and give it to him by using it on him, or refuse and enjoy a funny piece of dialogue about RuneScape and alcoholics. Either way, you will receive the final schematic .

Once you have all schematics, click 'assemble' on the one Dondakan gave you. You will be shown all schematics, but they will not make any sense. What you must do here is move the schematics one by one so that they fit with the original schematic. Select and show one at a time, rotate and move them to fit. It may be easiest to use the human stick figure legs, torso, and head to position each of the pieces correctly. This part should be quite simple. Be aware that even if you move the pieces in the correct relative position, you might need to select them all and move them together to the correct position on the screen. Once you put them all in place, the screen will show: "That's it! It all makes sense now! If you were a dwarf, that is..." .

Riddle of the rock [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Armour - Use the golden helmet for head protection, weapons, decent food (lobster or better) and a pickaxe.

Recommended: 15 free spaces in your inventory.

To fight the Arzinian Being of Bordanzan , you will need to mine at least six 6 gold ore . Otherwise, it will keep regenerating its hitpoints. Mining 15 pieces of gold is highly recommended as this will lower the combat level of the boss from 125 to 75. The gold must remain in your inventory. You only have eight 8 minutes to mine the gold AND defeat the avatar; if you take off your gold helmet, you will be teleported back to Dondakan.

Note: Mining a gold rock here will grant you the achievement for the Medium Fremennik Diary . You will not need to revisit the mine after the quest.
Equip the golden helmet; make sure you have a pickaxe because any gold ore/ingots in your inventory will disappear . Go back to Dondakan with the schematics and the items needed to kill the level 75-125 enemy. Once you are ready, ask Dondakan to shoot you into the rock.

When you feel you have enough gold ore, go to the centre of the area, where you will find a set of flames. Go through the first set of flames and talk to the second set. While talking to the flames, the Arzinian Avatar will attack.

The avatar will appear in one of three forms for the duration of the fight. The form chosen is usually based on your highest combat stat, though there is additionally a small chance to instead pick another form. The form that appears will determine the attack style of the boss:

Arzinian Avatar of Magic if your highest combat stat is Strength or Attack . Arzinian Avatar of Ranging if your highest combat stat is Magic . Arzinian Avatar of Strength if your highest combat stat is Ranged .

Choose combat equipment and prayers accordingly. See Arzinian Avatar for more details.

You can use Prayer for an easy fight; the spirit shouldn't take too long to kill. If you are close to dying, you can take your gold helmet off, which will teleport you outside of the rock, next to Dondakan.

Tip : If you die then collect the helmet from the ground and enter the cave again. You will have to start over. Remember food.

When you have defeated the spirit, you will be teleported back out of the rock. Speak to Dondakan to finish the quest.

Note: If your inventory was full when defeating the boss the helmet will be dropped on the ground, take it before speaking with Dondakan or else it will disappear.

Tip : If you plan on obtaining the Music cape , re-enter the mine to unlock the song In Between .

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 5,000 Defence experience 5,000 Mining experience 5,000 Smithing experience A rune pickaxe The ability to teleport to Dondakan's rock using a ring of wealth You get to keep your gold helmet and can continue using it to fire yourself into the rock to access the Arzinian Mine where there are lots of gold rocks and gold veins , and a nearby dwarf, at the river, banks the player's gold ore for a charge (he keeps 20% of the ores, rounded up, or 10% of the ores if the player has the ring of charos (a) ).

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Between a Rock... is required for the following:

Medium Wilderness Diary (partial completion required) Medium Fremennik Diary (partial completion required)

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

14 August 2024 ( update ) | After completing the 'Between a Rock...' quest, the 'Fire' option on Dondakan's cannon will now fire you back into his rock, allowing you skip his dialogue. You'll still need your Gold Helmet for safety reasons.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If the 'perfect' gold bar from the quest Family Crest is offered to Dondakan to make cannonballs from, he will tell players "Perfect gold? That's much too valuable to be used to make cannonballs!" After the quest, you may attempt to make an offer to buy Dondakan's Granite boots , but no matter how much you offer, he will never sell them. You can easily see 3 rooms used for Temple Knight initiation in Recruitment Drive from where you enter the rock. You have an option to respond to Dondakan when you are ready to be fired through the wall with "you may fire when ready!" which is a Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope reference. The part of the quest where the player gets launched with a rocket to the fight might be a reference to the 1902 adventure film A Trip to the Moon by Georges Méliès. As of 17 April 2025, if Dondakan's cannon has been firing at the wall every 4 game-ticks since the quest released, he has spent approximately 86,840,208,000 on cannonballs. Between a Rock... was released months before Keldagrim was opened to players. Prior to the city's unveiling, the Dwarven Engineer could be found in the Dwarven Mine below White Wolf Mountain . The name of the quest is a reference to the saying "between a rock and a hard place", which means "faced with two equally undesirable alternatives". Completion of this quest will cause a penguin cannonball to spawn during and after the quest Cold War . However, said NPC will not appear if this quest has not been completed prior to the dialogue trigger that checks if the quest was completed and will not appear even if the quest is completed at a later point. The same happens with the quest Enlightened Journey .

v • t • e Between a Rock...

NPCs | Dondakan Dwarven Engineer Rolad Khorvak Arzinian Beings Bordanzan Magic Ranging Strength |  | Dondakan Dwarven Engineer Rolad Khorvak | Arzinian Beings | Bordanzan Magic Ranging Strength

 | Dondakan Dwarven Engineer Rolad Khorvak

Arzinian Beings | Bordanzan Magic Ranging Strength

Items | Cannon ball Gold helmet Books and Pages Dwarven lore Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Pages Schematics Base Dondakan Dwarven Engineer Khorvak Complete |  | Cannon ball Gold helmet | Books and Pages | Dwarven lore Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Pages | Schematics | Base Dondakan Dwarven Engineer Khorvak Complete

 | Cannon ball Gold helmet

Books and Pages | Dwarven lore Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Pages

Schematics | Base Dondakan Dwarven Engineer Khorvak Complete

Locations | Dondakan's mine Keldagrim Bordanzan

Music | Claustrophobia In Between Time to Mine

Related | Quick guide

v • t • e Keldagrim

Inhabitants | Cave goblin Derni Dernu Dondakan the Dwarf Dwarf (train station) Dwarven Boatman (ore hauler) Dwarven Boatman Dwarven Ferryman Gnome emissary Miodvetnir Ticket dwarf Trade Referee West Keldagrim Audmann Banker Barman Dromund's cat Dromund Gauss Gnome traveller Haera Hegir Inn Keeper Myndill Rind the gardener Santiri Saro Stonemason Tombar East Keldagrim Barmaid Bentamir Blandebir Blasidar the sculptor Cart conductor Drunken Dwarf Karl Kjut Reinald Riki the sculptor's model Rowdy dwarf Runvastr Sune Tati Ulifed Palace Marketplace Agmundi Dwarven Engineer Gulldamar Gunslik Hervi Hirko Nolar Odmar Professor Manglethorp Randivor Vermundi Vigr Wemund Consortium Blue Opal Director Blue Opal Secretary Trader (The Blue Opal) Brown Engine Director Brown Engine Secretary Trader (The Brown Engine) Green Gemstone Director Green Gemstone Secretary Trader (The Green Gemstone) Purple Pewter Director Purple Pewter Secretary Trader (The Purple Pewter) Red Axe Cat Red Axe Director Red Axe Secretary Trader (The Red Axe) Silver Cog Director Silver Cog Secretary Trader (The Silver Cog) White Chisel Director White Chisel Secretary Trader (The White Chisel) Yellow Fortune Director Yellow Fortune Secretary Trader (The Yellow Fortune) Dwarven Black Guard Black Guard Black Guard Berserker Colonel Grimsson (former) Commander Veldaban Supreme Commander Blast Furnace Blast Furnace Foreman Dwarven Miner Factory Manager Factory Worker Jorzik Ordan Palace Library Assistant Customer Customer (Dwarf) Librarian Rat Pits Anleif Captain Tom Fior Loki Oxi Rauborn Sagira Smokin' Joe The Beast Vaeringk |  | Cave goblin Derni Dernu Dondakan the Dwarf Dwarf (train station) Dwarven Boatman (ore hauler) Dwarven Boatman Dwarven Ferryman Gnome emissary Miodvetnir Ticket dwarf Trade Referee | West Keldagrim | Audmann Banker Barman Dromund's cat Dromund Gauss Gnome traveller Haera Hegir Inn Keeper Myndill Rind the gardener Santiri Saro Stonemason Tombar | East Keldagrim | Barmaid Bentamir Blandebir Blasidar the sculptor Cart conductor Drunken Dwarf Karl Kjut Reinald Riki the sculptor's model Rowdy dwarf Runvastr Sune Tati Ulifed | Palace Marketplace | Agmundi Dwarven Engineer Gulldamar Gunslik Hervi Hirko Nolar Odmar Professor Manglethorp Randivor Vermundi Vigr Wemund | Consortium | Blue Opal Director Blue Opal Secretary Trader (The Blue Opal) Brown Engine Director Brown Engine Secretary Trader (The Brown Engine) Green Gemstone Director Green Gemstone Secretary Trader (The Green Gemstone) Purple Pewter Director Purple Pewter Secretary Trader (The Purple Pewter) Red Axe Cat Red Axe Director Red Axe Secretary Trader (The Red Axe) Silver Cog Director Silver Cog Secretary Trader (The Silver Cog) White Chisel Director White Chisel Secretary Trader (The White Chisel) Yellow Fortune Director Yellow Fortune Secretary Trader (The Yellow Fortune) | Dwarven Black Guard | Black Guard Black Guard Berserker Colonel Grimsson (former) Commander Veldaban Supreme Commander | Blast Furnace | Blast Furnace Foreman Dwarven Miner Factory Manager Factory Worker Jorzik Ordan | Palace Library | Assistant Customer Customer (Dwarf) Librarian | Rat Pits | Anleif Captain Tom Fior Loki Oxi Rauborn Sagira Smokin' Joe The Beast Vaeringk

 | Cave goblin Derni Dernu Dondakan the Dwarf Dwarf (train station) Dwarven Boatman (ore hauler) Dwarven Boatman Dwarven Ferryman Gnome emissary Miodvetnir Ticket dwarf Trade Referee

West Keldagrim | Audmann Banker Barman Dromund's cat Dromund Gauss Gnome traveller Haera Hegir Inn Keeper Myndill Rind the gardener Santiri Saro Stonemason Tombar

East Keldagrim | Barmaid Bentamir Blandebir Blasidar the sculptor Cart conductor Drunken Dwarf Karl Kjut Reinald Riki the sculptor's model Rowdy dwarf Runvastr Sune Tati Ulifed

Palace Marketplace | Agmundi Dwarven Engineer Gulldamar Gunslik Hervi Hirko Nolar Odmar Professor Manglethorp Randivor Vermundi Vigr Wemund

Consortium | Blue Opal Director Blue Opal Secretary Trader (The Blue Opal) Brown Engine Director Brown Engine Secretary Trader (The Brown Engine) Green Gemstone Director Green Gemstone Secretary Trader (The Green Gemstone) Purple Pewter Director Purple Pewter Secretary Trader (The Purple Pewter) Red Axe Cat Red Axe Director Red Axe Secretary Trader (The Red Axe) Silver Cog Director Silver Cog Secretary Trader (The Silver Cog) White Chisel Director White Chisel Secretary Trader (The White Chisel) Yellow Fortune Director Yellow Fortune Secretary Trader (The Yellow Fortune)

Dwarven Black Guard | Black Guard Black Guard Berserker Colonel Grimsson (former) Commander Veldaban Supreme Commander

Blast Furnace | Blast Furnace Foreman Dwarven Miner Factory Manager Factory Worker Jorzik Ordan

Palace Library | Assistant Customer Customer (Dwarf) Librarian

Rat Pits | Anleif Captain Tom Fior Loki Oxi Rauborn Sagira Smokin' Joe The Beast Vaeringk

Companies | The Blue Opal The Brown Engine The Green Gemstone The Purple Pewter The Red Axe The Silver Cog The White Chisel The Yellow Fortune

Shops | Agmundi Quality Clothes Armour store. Carefree Crafting Stall Crossbow Shop Green Gemstone Gems Gunslik's Assorted Items Keldagrim Stonemason King's Axe Inn Kjut's Kebabs Laughing Miner Pub Ore seller. Pickaxe-Is-Mine Quality Armour Shop Quality Weapons Shop Ratpit bar Silver Cog Silver Stall Vigr's Warhammers Wemund's Wrench Warehouse

Features | Dondakan's mine Dorgesh-Kaan–Keldagrim train system Giant Dwarf (statue) Keldagrim entrance mine Keldagrim Library Keldagrim minecart system Keldagrim north-east mine Keldagrim south-west mine Keldagrim Palace Rat Pits River Kelda Trade Octagon

Related | Between a Rock... Consortium Forgettable Tale... Keldagrim tasks Keldagrim Trading (unreleased) King Alvis The Giant Dwarf