 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Big Chompy Bird Hunting (#52)





Released | 18 May 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tytn H



Big Chompy Bird Hunting is a quest in which you help Rantz the ogre catch a chompy bird so that he may feed his children.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Rantz , far east of Feldip Hills . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Rantz the Ogre needs to feed his demanding children, Fycie and Bugs, so he wants to go Big Chompy Bird hunting. Problem is, he's all fingers and thumbs when it comes to making ogre arrows.
Could someone please give him a hand?

Requirements | 5 Fletching ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 30 Cooking ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 30 Ranged ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) The ability to defend against level 64 wolves and level 53 ogres

Items required | Any axe that you can use ( Blessed axe does not work) Feathers (100 to be safe; coloured feathers from Hunter work) Bringing 50 to buy 25 feathers from Fycie also works Knife (or 10 to buy a knife and chisel from Bugs ) Chisel (or 10 to buy a knife and chisel from Bugs ) 4 wolf bones (can be obtained from level 64 wolves during the quest or from level 14 wolves in the Stronghold of Security ) Cabbage (can be obtained during the quest, Draynor cabbage will not work) Tomato (can be obtained during the quest) Onion (can be obtained during the quest) Potato (can be obtained during the quest) Equa leaves (can be obtained during the quest) Doogle leaves (can be obtained during the quest)

Recommended | 25 Combat level Armour and weapons (but not gear that reduces your chance to hit with Ranged , as this can cause you not to hit the chompy bird ) Stamina or energy potions and some food Feldip hills teleport or Fairy Rings to A K S (or Gnome Glider after completion of One Small Favour )

Enemies to defeat | Chompy bird (level 6) Wolves (level 64) (optional)

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Morytania ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Tirannwn ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Rantz ; he is located south-east of Gu'Tanoth . Some ways to get to him include using the Gnome glider (after completing One Small Favour ), Feldip Hills teleport or the Fairy rings system ( A K S ).

Rantz is hungry and wants you to help him make arrows for his unusually large bow, so he can hunt the chompy bird .

Like any arrow, ogre arrows need feathers , a shaft and a tip. Note: You must make the ogre arrows from scratch; otherwise, Rantz will not accept them.

Tip: Take weapons , armour , food , a chisel, an axe , a knife , and feathers with you when you go to talk with Rantz .

Making the arrowtips [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Weapons , armour , food and a chisel .

Important: You need to start the quest before you can have the ability to make the arrowtips.

Kill a few wolves (level 64) in the crater to the south-west of Rantz for wolf bones . (Can be safespotted standing near the "Roots" in north-east of the swamp.) Use a chisel on the wolf bones to produce arrow tips .

Making the shafts [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: An axe and knife .

Chop down a few Achey Trees nearby for Achey tree logs (you'll need around 5 logs - Rantz himself wants 6 arrows, and you will probably want a few of your own). Use a knife on the logs to produce some arrow shafts.

Making the arrows [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: feathers .

Use feathers on the shafts to produce flighted ogre arrows . Use the flighted ogre arrows with the wolfbone arrowtips .

The cave [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Rantz , and give him the arrows . He then tells you about the swamp toads that his children like to play with. Ask Rantz all of the questions that are listed, or else, you won't be able to open the chest later. Enter the cave entrance north of Rantz. Speak to Rantz' children ( Fycie and Bugs ) in the cave. They will inform you that Rantz locked their ogre bellows in the chest (keep the bellows if you plan on doing Mourning's End Part I and/or Recipe for Disaster ). The chest is closed and weighted shut with a large rock.

Attempt to unlock the chest. Unsuccessful attempts will reduce your Strength by 1. Search the chest to retrieve the bellows (make sure to search it right away, or it may lock again).

The inflatable toads [ edit | edit source ]

Head back to the south-west of Rantz , where you found the wolves . They surround a swamp. (see the first picture of the walkthrough.) Use the bellows on the swamp bubbles in the swamp, at the southern end of the swamp pond. You get three shots with the gas filled bellows before it needs to be filled again. (Swamp bubbles may also be found at Yanille Agility dungeon near poison spiders .) Use the bellows on a toad again to get a bloated toad , and you will catch it and put it in your inventory. Get three toads. You can only carry a maximum of three bloated toads; inflating more will simply replace one toad in your inventory.

The chompy and the hunt [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Rantz and talk to him. He will show you where you need to place the toads to lure the chompy birds out.

Drop some toads on the spot (a yellow flashing arrow will mark it), then walk closer to Rantz. Don't stay too close to the bait, but make sure it is in visible range. On a successful lure, a chompy bird will appear. Occasionally, the lure will be unsuccessful and the bait will disappear; if this happens, drop another toad. Rantz will take a shot at it, but he will miss. He will complain that the arrows don't fly straight. Talk to Rantz and offer to help shoot for him. He will agree and give you his ogre bow . (If you're quick getting the bow, the already spawned chompy bird can be killed. The ogre bow or comp ogre bow are used during Recipe for Disaster, so be sure to hold on to either if planning to do that quest too). Head back down to the clearing and place another toad (it doesn't have to be on the exact tile indicated at first). Wield the bow and arrows and when the bird appears, range it. If the bird doesn't appear or it flies away before you can kill it, keep placing bloated toads to lure the Chompies back. Once you kill a Chompy, pluck the carcass and take the raw chompy back to Rantz. He now wants you to cook it as well. In order to progress, you must kill the chompy yourself. Purchasing a raw chompy from the Grand Exchange or another player will not allow you to move forward in the quest.

Cooking the chompy bird [ edit | edit source ]

Rantz will name a special ingredient that he wants the bird to be cooked with. He will also tell you to ask the children what they would like the bird seasoned with.

Travel to the cave, and ask each of the two Ogre children what they want the Chompy seasoned with. In all, you will need three different ingredients, but only one bird.

It's different from player to player what the ogres want on the Chompy, but here's a quick list of where to get it all. Onion : A little bit to the west-southwest, there's a fire near the tomato spawn. The onions are growing next to the stool where you find the tomato . Right click on the grassy shoots and pick them. You may instead receive an onion seed; simply pick another plant if this happens. Doogle leaves : To the west, east of the glider . Equa leaves : Three equa leaves spawn on a small peninsula by some willow trees , south-east of Rantz. Tomato : West-southwest of Rantz, near the ogres and in the same area as the onion plants. It spawns on top of a stool. Potato : A bit south-east of Rantz near the equa leaf spawns, there are potato plants; pick one to get the potato. You may instead receive a potato seed; simply pick another plant if this happens. Cabbage : Several cabbage plants are scattered throughout the area, the closest ones are either south-west of Rantz (north of the tomato and onions) or south-east of him (by the potatoes and equa leaves). You may instead receive a cabbage seed; simply pick another plant if this happens. Use the bird on the spit north of Rantz while holding all three ingredients. Present Rantz with his delicious seasoned cooked chompy bird.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 262 Fletching experience 1,470 Cooking experience 735 Ranged experience An ogre bow The ability to fletch ogre arrows The ability to cook chompy birds and earn a bowman hat

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Big Chompy Bird Hunting is required for the following:

Mourning's End Part I Recipe for Disaster ( Lumbridge Guide & Skrach Uglogwee ) Zogre Flesh Eaters Western Provinces Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Chompy Hunt

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

9 November 2022 ( update ) | Some dialogue that was incorrectly formatted has been fixed.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

When Rantz misses the bird , he blames the "arrows" rather than the "stabbers".

v • t • e Big Chompy Bird Hunting

NPCs | Rantz Fycie Bugs Gruh Scarg Gargh Chompy bird Swamp Toad

Items | Achey tree logs Wolf bones Bloated toad Ogre bellows Iron spit Ogre arrows Shaft Flighted Tips Ogre arrow Chompy meat Raw Cooked Seasoned |  | Achey tree logs Wolf bones Bloated toad Ogre bellows Iron spit | Ogre arrows | Shaft Flighted Tips Ogre arrow | Chompy meat | Raw Cooked Seasoned

 | Achey tree logs Wolf bones Bloated toad Ogre bellows Iron spit

Ogre arrows | Shaft Flighted Tips Ogre arrow

Chompy meat | Raw Cooked Seasoned

Reward | Ogre bow

Locations | Rantz's cave Ogre spit-roast

Scenery | Swamp bubbles

Related | Quick guide Transcript