 | This quest has a quick guide and a speedrunning guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Black Knights' Fortress (#12)





Released | 6 April 2001 ( Update )

Members | No

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Paul Gower



The Black Knights are up to no good. You are hired by the white knights to spy on them and destroy their secret weapon.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Sir Amik Varze on the 2 nd floor [ UK ] 3 rd floor [ US ] of the White Knights' Castle 's western tower in Falador . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Very Short

Description | The Black Knights are up to no good. You are hired by the white knights to spy on them and destroy their secret weapon.

Requirements | 12 Quest points ( required to start ) The ability to evade level 33 Black Knights

Items required | Cabbage (can be obtained from the cabbage patch in Edgeville Monastery and South Falador Farm , as well as Lumbridge cellar . Cabbages obtained from Draynor Manor CANNOT be used) Iron chainbody (can be purchased at Horvik's Armour Shop in Varrock and from Wayne's Chains in Falador ) Bronze med helm (can be purchased in the helmet shop in Barbarian Village , spawns by the backdoor of Draynor Manor )

Recommended | 15 Combat level Food Armour Falador teleports ( Members only) Combat bracelet to the Monastery and head west towards the Black Knights' Fortress

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting the required items [ edit | edit source ]

First, get the items. Grab a cabbage from Edgeville Monastery near the Black Knights' Fortress or at the cabbage patch in the farm south of Falador (cabbage taken from Draynor Manor will not work; you will find out why during the quest), buy a bronze med helm from Peksa in Barbarian Village (or get one in the backroom of Draynor Manor), and buy an iron chainbody from Wayne's Chains in Falador . If your Smithing level is high enough (3 for the bronze medium helmet, and 26 for the iron chainbody), you can just smith the chain and the helmet. If not, you'll have to buy them from the shops listed above or buy them from the Grand Exchange .

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Sir Amik Varze , who can be found on the 2 nd floor [ UK ] 3 rd floor [ US ] west wing of White Knights' Castle in Falador . He will tell you that he needs a spy. He wants you to spy on the Black Knights for him at their fortress located just north of Ice Mountain near Edgeville . He wants you to find out what their new weapon is and destroy it. A free inventory space is needed for a dossier handed to you by Sir Amik Varze. Note: The dossier will self-destruct once you read it, signifying the start of the quest.

Infiltrating the fortress [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to the Black Knights' Fortress . It is north-east of the Dwarven Mine and the Oracle , north-west of the Monastery . Run through the Black Knights , as they will attack you because they are naturally aggressive . Enter the door to the south surrounded by guards. Make sure you are wearing the Iron chainbody and the Bronze med helm (you may wear armour in the legs, cape, shield, gloves, boots, and amulet slot for extra protection, but the body and head slot must be the iron chainbody and bronze med helm), or they won't let you enter.

In this small room, there will be a grill. Click on it to listen. You will hear a conversation between the Black Knight Captain , a witch and a goblin .

Sabotaging the secret weapon [ edit | edit source ]

If you are at low health from any previously encountered Black Knights , you can go to the Monastery located East of the Black Knights' Fortress and speak to a Monk to heal you.

Return to the entrance of the building and enter the the room directly east after entering. The guard will warn you about going in, click the option saying you don't care and proceed. (there are many Black Knights walking around a table inside).

Go up the Ladder on the northern wall of the room.

Walk around the upper, L shaped landing, and Push the wall the wall open. Right-click your cabbage so that you do not eat it, and use it with the hole that should be in the room. You will hear the witch say that her weapon is destroyed.

If you just accidentally ate your cabbage, another can be found in a patch near the Edgeville Monastery. You can also kill the imps near the Mysterious Ruins to the south as they can drop them.

You could use the "talk-to" option to freeze a guard from moving, allowing you to trap the black knight behind him. This way, you can kill him with magic easily, or likely just go through the door after having him behind a guard linearly to the door.

Using a cabbage picked from the Draynor Manor patch will result in a dialogue box saying, "this is the wrong sort of cabbage!" and your character will say, "I'm not supposed to be HELPING the witch you know!" (You must click the hole twice once to listen and another to use the cabbage on the hole).

Return to Sir Amik Varze , and tell him you sabotaged the weapon. When he is done talking, you will have finished the quest, and have received your award.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Reward [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 2,500 Coins

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Black Knights' Fortress is required for the following:

King's Ransom Recruitment Drive

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

7 August 2006 ( update ) | The quest underwent a major rework, with graphical updates and changes to dialogue.

26 January - 25 June 2005 | The quest was renamed from "Black Knight's Fortress" to "Black Knights' Fortress".

29 March 2004 ( update ) | The quest was renamed from "Black knight's fortress" to "Black Knight's Fortress".

28 May - 16 June 2001 | The quest was renamed from "Spy quest" to "Black knight's fortress".

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The quest point requirement was added to discourage players from creating new accounts to do the quest and transfer the 2,500 coins to their main characters. If the player tries to throw a Draynor Manor cabbage down into the cauldron they will receive the chatbox message "This is the wrong sort of cabbage!", along with the character stating "I'm not supposed to be HELPING the witch you know..." When talking to Sir Amik Varze to start the quest, he says "Your mission, should you decide to accept it". This is a reference to Mission Impossible . The dossier given to you by Sir Amik Varze reads: "Infiltrate fortress... sabotage secret weapon... self destruct in 3...2...ARG!", which is another reference to Mission Impossible . This quest was named Spy quest until the Quest List was released on 28 May 2001 . At first, the quest gave around 250 Thieving experience as a reward. Thieving was in the skill menu at the time, but had not been programmed yet. The skill was later removed and added back in 2002, but the quest no longer gave Thieving experience. When talking to Sir Amik Varze to start the quest, you can choose to say "I laugh in the face of danger!" This is most likely a reference to Simba in The Lion King .

v • t • e Black Knights' Fortress

NPCs | Sir Amik Varze Black Knight Captain Lensig Greldo Black Cat Fortress Guard

Items | Dossier Broken cauldron Cabbage (Draynor Manor)

Locations | Black Knights' Fortress Falador

Music | Fanfare Knightmare

Related | Quick guide ( speedrunning ) Transcript