 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Bone Voyage (#132)





Released | 7 September 2017 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Mod Jed



Bone Voyage is a quest about the construction of a barge for the Varrock museum . The quest unlocks Fossil Island , which is of archaeological interest to the museum Curator Haig Halen .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Curator Haig Halen in the Varrock Museum . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Curator Haig Halen needs your help to finish the construction of a barge fit to take the Varrock museum crew to an unexplored landmass to the east. There have been many attempts to reach the island, but none were successful.
This quest will have you venturing across Gielinor, aiding the Varrock museum and making the success of the voyage a possibility.

Requirements | 100 Kudos Completion of the following quest: The Dig Site

Items required | 2 vodka Marrentill potion (unf)

Recommended | Fast travel to the Digsite ( Digsite teleport or Digsite pendant ; 3-4 teleports recommended) Fast travel to the Lumber Yard (short walk from the Digsite or use a Lumberyard teleport -- alternatively, use the Balloon Transport System , costing a willow log per flight; 2 teleports recommended) Fast travel to the Woodcutting Guild ( Skills necklace or Xeric's talisman to Xeric's Lookout) Fast travel to Varrock ( Varrock teleport ) Fast travel to reach Port Sarim ( Amulet of glory or Explorer's ring 2 ) Post-quest recommended: An iron bar , 2 oak planks , 5 nails and a hammer if you want to build the bank chest on Fossil Island ( Note: This requires 21 Construction )

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Unlocking Misthalin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Curator Haig Halen at the Varrock Museum . Ask if he has any interesting news. He will tell you that they have found an interesting island north of Morytania , and that they believe it may be of archaeological significance. They are in the process of making the final preparations for the voyage, and he has recommended you talk to the barge foreman , who has requested the aid of a qualified and experienced adventurer. Agree to help, and make your way to the Digsite .

The finishing touches [ edit | edit source ]

Head to the canal barge north of the Digsite . There, speak to the barge foreman in front of the barge. They are in the final stages of preparation, but there are a few minor adjustments he'd like to make to the barge before getting the crew ready. He requires a sturdier type of wood to keep the barge afloat; magic logs will not do, since they had peculiar side effects (which you will learn later). He will require a high-grade wood found only in the distant Western lands - redwood.

The barge foreman will instruct the player to talk to the Sawmill operator at the Sawmill north-west from the barge.

Travel to the Lumber Yard and speak to the Sawmill operator. In order to obtain redwood planks, he has arranged a fairly generous deal between himself and the sawmill in Great Kourend 's Woodcutting Guild . He will give you a sawmill proposal , which you will have to deliver to the Woodcutting Guild.

Now, travel to the Woodcutting Guild in Hosidius using your skills necklace, or Xeric's Talisman - Xeric's Lookout which is fairly close. Ironmen may want to use the Tithe farm minigame teleport instead (Must have entered farmer Gricollers' guild before. Otherwise travel from Veos in Port Sarim, or use fairy ring A K R ), and hand the proposal to the Woodcutting Guild Sawmill operator. If you don't have the requirements to enter the Woodcutting Guild, try to open the eastern gate to the guild to complete this step; Berry will sign it on behalf of the guild's sawmill operator.

Return to the Varrock Sawmill operator, and give him the sawmill agreement .

The cursed voyage [ edit | edit source ]

Go back to the barge foreman , who will ask you to board the barge . Speak to the barge guard , and he will let you board the barge. On the barge, speak to the Lead Navigator . First, confirm that you are here to help them out. Then he will ask you if you are aware of the previous attempts at the expedition. Pick the first option if you wish to know what happened. Otherwise, pick the second to skip the dialogue.

The first barge had some serious design flaws... it didn't float. The second barge suffered from 'feature creep'. Senior museum staff stuck their oar in and added unnecessary features: 'go-faster stripes', a portable fossil centrifuge and a walk-on mini-museum. Needless to say, it had... buoyancy issues. The third barge made it out to sea, but a special sealant was used that attracted sea monsters. They didn't make it very far. The fourth also used a special sealant, this one attracted icebergs. The fifth barge crashed into the sixth. We lost the seventh one. The eighth barge is still here, we think. An accident involving a magical explosion and some talking anchovies means that it is now believed to reside 12 seconds out of phase. The ninth version was built with magic logs . The barge gained some form of rudimentary sentience. It developed serious depression and ran itself aground near Crandor .

Thus, he will believe the voyage is cursed, and will refuse to sail unless you can ensure the safety of the crew from this curse. He asks you to talk to some experienced sailors in the Rusty Anchor Inn in Port Sarim .

Teleport and go to the Rusty Anchor Inn in Port Sarim using an Amulet of Glory (Draynor) , Rimmington house teleport , or the Rat Pits Minigame teleport . Talk to Jack Seagull in the Rusty Anchor Inn, and ask him if he has ever made any cursed voyages. He will claim that you need a lucky bone charm , and that you should speak to the Odd Old Man in Silvarea to get one. Ahab will interrupt, claiming that a ' potion of sealegs ' will have you sail the voyage unscathed. You decide that you'll ask the navigators which one they'll prefer to have.

Return to the Lead Navigator. He will want the potion of sealegs, but the Junior Navigator wants the bone charm instead.

Visit the Odd Old Man (the rag and bone man) by the Silvarea mine , north of the Digsite , and ask for a lucky charm. Tell him that you're making a cursed voyage to receive the bone charm.

Speak to the Apothecary in Varrock south-west of Varrock Square (you will need to select "Talk about something else"). He will require a marrentill potion (unf) and two bottles of vodka . Speak to him again to receive the potion of sealegs.

The "cursed" voyage [ edit | edit source ]

Return to the barge , and give the Junior Navigator the bone charm and the Lead Navigator the potion of sealegs .

Unsurprisingly, the potion has made everyone except the Junior Navigator pass out. As he has never navigated open waters, you will now have to steer the barge. You will have to steer the rudder left, right, or straight using the controls on the interface. The progress bar will indicate how far you have to go to reach the island; going too far off course will reduce your progress. If it takes too long, the boat will get lost and the crew will wake up; simply talk to the Junior Navigator to start again.

Tips to get there quickly:

When the top arrow tilts to the left, click on the right arrow a couple of times to tilt the rudder. When the top arrow tilts to the right, click on the left arrow a couple of times to tilt the rudder. When the top arrow is mostly straight ahead, click on the arrows to centre the rudder. Changing the height of the sails will alter how drastically the boat shifts from side to side. Having the boat's sails as large as possible when going in a straight line will allow for faster travel. It's possible to successfully navigate to the island by leaving the sails fully deployed the whole time.

Once the progress bar is filled, you will arrive at Fossil Island .

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point Access to Fossil Island - to disembark the boat upon arrival at Fossil Island, speak to the Junior Navigator . Fossil island note book

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Bone Voyage is required for the following:

Dragon Slayer II

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

A log in screen competition was held around 2 weeks before release in order to use a player-made log in screen to commemorate release of the quest. The winner of the competition, Runezilla , was awarded with "1 Year of Membership". The name of the quest is a pun on the French bon voyage , used to wish others a safe journey, and bones , since the destination is Fossil Island . The pun made its first appearance in an update newspost on 10 April 2006 with the release of Rag and Bone Man I . The term " feature creep " used to describe the second flawed design refers to a common anti-pattern in software design, where unnecessary features are added to the system. In real life this often results in the failure of the system. The problem with the ninth barge may be a reference to the Liveship novels by Robin Hobb. The novels feature a moody, sentient ship made from magical wood that runs itself aground several times. The problem with the eighth barge may be a reference to the science-fiction series Star Trek. In the series, phase shifting is a ship-cloaking technology commonly used by the Romulan Star Empire. There is a spelling error is the dialogue with the Lead Navigator when he mentions the eighth barge - he spells it the 'eigth' barge.

v • t • e Bone Voyage

NPCs | Curator Haig Halen Barge foreman Sawmill operator Barge guard Lead Navigator Junior Navigator John David Jack Seagull Ahab Odd Old Man Apothecary

Items | Sawmill proposal Sawmill agreement Bone charm Potion of sealegs Fossil island note book Notes Scribbled note Partial note Ancient note Ancient writings Experimental note Paragraph of text Musty smelling note Hastily scrawled note Old writing Short note |  | Sawmill proposal Sawmill agreement Bone charm Potion of sealegs Fossil island note book | Notes | Scribbled note Partial note Ancient note Ancient writings Experimental note Paragraph of text Musty smelling note Hastily scrawled note Old writing Short note

 | Sawmill proposal Sawmill agreement Bone charm Potion of sealegs Fossil island note book

Notes | Scribbled note Partial note Ancient note Ancient writings Experimental note Paragraph of text Musty smelling note Hastily scrawled note Old writing Short note

Locations | Canal barge Fossil Island

Music | Preservation

Related | Quick guide Transcript