 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Cold War (#118)





Released | 29 January 2007 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Penguin , #1

Lead developer(s) | Nancy J



Cold War is currently the only quest in the penguin quest series . It involves two agents finding out about the plans of the penguins, and requires you to go undercover as a penguin spy on the iceberg in the Lunar Sea.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Larry at Ardougne Zoo . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | At the Ardougne Zoo, one of the zookeepers has become a bit preoccupied by penguins. In fact, he's downright paranoid about them. He needs your help to observe their habits on the iceberg in the Lunar Sea.
What begins as a peaceful bird-watching expedition opens a new world of espionage and bad musicians.

Requirements | 10 Hunter ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 30 Agility ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 30 Crafting ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) [1] 34 Construction ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 15 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Access to a crafting table 3

Items required | 10 oak planks 10 steel nails Hammer Spade Clockwork or a steel bar to make one Plank Silk Raw cod or the ring of charos (a) Swamp tar 5 feathers (only regular chicken feathers work) Mahogany plank Leather

Recommended | 30 Combat level Fast travel to Lumbridge ( Lumbridge teleport ), Ardougne ( Ardougne teleport or Ardougne cloak 1 ) and the player-owned house ( Teleport to House ), Dramen or Lunar staff (as well as a teleport to access the Fairy ring network ) Armour and some food

Enemies to defeat | 1–3 Icelords (level 51)

Ironman concerns | 50 Woodcutting ( boostable ) for the mahogany plank

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Penguin spotting [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Larry at the south entrance of the Ardougne Zoo . He's a bit nutty about penguins . Larry hopes to build a lookout to observe the penguins. His instructions are to collect him 10 oak planks , 10 steel nails , a hammer and a spade . When you have your supplies, talk to him again and tell him that you have the materials to build the lookout (He also says to meet him north-east of Rellekka , but this is not necessary). He will now teleport you to the Iceberg . Accept the teleportation prompt (you can't have any pet following you, otherwise you won't be teleported).

If you opt out of Larry's offer or ever need to get to the meeting location without his teleport, you have to go to the north-east of the rock crabs, and can teleport very close to it with the fairy ring code D K S (just walk down the mountain and a small bit north-west to the dock). If you have completed The Giant Dwarf , you can use the Grand Exchange trapdoor to shortcut to Rellekka. You can also use the enchanted lyre to teleport to Rellekka and walk to the meeting spot. If no closer teleport is available to you, teleport to Camelot and walk north. If you leave an area during any point in the quest, Larry will not teleport you back and you'll need to make your way there yourself. Prepare for this if necessary.

Upon arrival, you'll see a firm snow patch next to the landing spot. Build the lookout here by using an oak plank on the patch. Then, use a spade on the lookout to cover it in snow. You can also use the dig option on the spade while standing near the lookout.

When the lookout is ready, speak to Larry. This will be followed by a rather strange cutscene . Keep note of the emotes the penguin does, as the emote greeting code is unique for every player and will need to be used, in order, for several later parts of the quest. There are eight different penguin emotes in all, similar to the normal character emotes , and the greeting will consist of three of those. If you need to see them again, click "Use Snowy bird hide" to watch the cutscene again. After the cutscene, speak to Larry and suggest to him that the behaviour of the penguins in the cutscene was suspicious.

Emote | Image | Animation

Shiver |  | 

Cheer |  | 

Spin |  | 

Wave |  | 

Clap |  | 

Preen |  | 

Bow |  | 

Flap |  | 

Use the boat or the 'travel' option on Larry to return to the dock and speak to Larry again - now, here's where things get strange. Larry requests to now design a clockwork suit , which will be used to spy on the penguins. He gives a book filled with instructions.

The clockwork suit [ edit | edit source ]

Collect a regular wood plank (the games necklace teleport is handy here; just teleport to the Barbarian Outpost and head east a bit to find some planks. Or, go just south-east of the zoo to pick one up at Port Khazard ), a piece of silk (steal one at the East Ardougne market place if you have level 20+ Thieving) and a clockwork (or a steel bar if you're making one).

If making one, use the clockmaker's bench ( crafting table 3 ) at your house (or someone else's) to make a clockwork mechanism with the steel bar in your inventory . Then, use the clockmaker's bench again and select "clockwork toy" followed by "clockwork penguin" to make the clockwork suit with the plank, the piece of silk, and the clockwork mechanism in your inventory.

Back to the Iceberg [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Larry after finishing the suit (in the north-east of Rellekka or at the Ardougne Zoo ) Then, return to the Iceberg with him to test it out.

After returning, you come to find out that the lookout has been completely destroyed and that all the penguins are missing. Speak to Larry, and to no surprise, he will blame the penguins. Now, since there are no penguins, it appears impossible to test the suit. However, being the clever adventurer, you will suggest that the suit be tested on the penguins at the zoo. Larry will kindly assist with a teleport back to the Ardougne Zoo , should you accept.

Meet the penguins [ edit | edit source ]

Free your hand and cape slots and talk to Larry . He will then cast a magic spell. The magic causes a player to shrink and enter the penguin suit ! Now, test out the disguise. Head into the penguin enclosure and right click on the penguins until you find one with the talk option. Talk to that penguin , and you will be forced to give him a greeting before he shall speak to you; this is different for each player. Use the emote sequence that the earlier cutscene showed. If you do not know the sequence it is too late to go back and find out, but fortunately you can guess the emotes and will be told as soon as you make a mistake. This means a maximum of 24 guesses are needed, not 512! The penguin will start talking once you're successful, and will reveal that they're trying to learn how to fly in order to escape from the Ardougne Zoo . The penguin will give you a mission report to return to the outpost and ask you to speak to the penguins in Lumbridge . Note that the mission report received will be different depending on whether the player completed the quests Between a Rock... and/or Enlightened Journey . At this point, this will determine whether two Crazy penguin NPCs will appear in the game or not and the outcome will be permanent, even if the related quests are later completed .

Leave the cage and speak with Larry. You will discuss where penguins could be in Lumbridge . Now, head to Lumbridge .

In Lumbridge, head to Fred the Farmer 's sheep pasture where you will find Larry; use the tuxedo time option with him (don't forget to remove everything from your hand and cape slots). Now, head off and find a "sheep" with flippers and a talk option (if you've done the quest Sheep Shearer , you may remember this "sheep" as the "Thing"). Talk to the "sheep" and perform the secret greeting (which remains the same as the previous step). The penguins in the sheep disguise will tell you to go away, demanding a secret phrase in addition to the secret greeting.

Speak to Larry, and he will help you both return to the Ardougne Zoo . When you have either the raw cod in your inventory or are wearing a ring of charos (a) , re-tuxedo and enter the penguin enclosure once more and speak to the penguin again. If you are not wearing the ring, he will not give you the phrase, requesting a raw cod in exchange for it, the penguins' favourite food. If you are wearing the ring, he will simply provide it in the conversation, telling you that the secret phrase is do not trust the walrus .

Intelligence [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to Lumbridge (Larry does not provide a teleport this time). If you don't have swamp tar yet, head south to the Lumbridge Swamp and pick some up. Then, head north to the farm again. If you need feathers, kill enough chickens to obtain five of them. If you can, grab the items  ( food if low combat level level or at the minimum agility requirement for the quest, Mahogany plank , Leather ,  and a cowbell ) for the next steps as a bank will be far away. Go to Fred the Farmer 's sheep pen and penguin suit up! Talk to the "sheep" again. Now, the penguins will tell you to talk to Fred the Farmer to see if he's an undercover agent for the humans.

Exit your penguin suit and speak to Fred the Farmer about penguins. Use either the bully option or warn option. Both work. When you are done talking to Fred, return and speak with the penguin again. Pick either option in the conversation with the penguin and then they will give you the location of the outpost - it is on the Iceberg you visited earlier under what appears to be an avalanche. They will also give you a password: cabbage .

It is advised you steal a cowbell now from a nearby dairy cow before proceeding to next section of the quest (one can be stolen to the north or east of the sheep pen).

It is also recommended to obtain the last remaining items for this quest now in order to save time later on (those items being a mahogany plank and leather . Optionally, Combat equipment and food if you have a low combat or agility  level).

Speak to Larry , and he will teleport you to the Iceberg. Suit up to penguin again and head north-west until you see a KGP Agent penguin. Talk to him and use the emote greeting; then, tell him the password, and then he will ask you for an ID but, guess what, you don't have one!

Now, speak to Noodle . He's the black market merchant close to the KGP agent, and he'll trade you an ID and a report if you give him one swamp tar and five feathers.

Exchange the materials with Noodle for the ID and another mission report. Speak to the KGP agent and he'll let you through; then, left click on the avalanche and you should see the option use avalanche and you will enter the outpost.

Once inside, go into the first room on the left (West), and talk to the KGP agent to be debriefed there; once done, head into the corridor on the other side of the room; you will now have to complete an agility course .

Once you have exited the door at the end of the corridor, you shall see a small cutscene showing a penguin army! Suddenly, you realise their intentions are a little more devious than just flying! Follow the signs with arrows to the agility course, and when the path ends, just past some blue crates; turn past the crates to start the agility course.

Agility course [ edit | edit source ]

Climb down the steps and into the water. Avoid the moving ice in the water. Climb the stepping stone at the end.

Jump to the next stepping stone. Jump to the five next stones. (If you fail you will take minor damage). Then, jump to the land on the other side.

After you manage to cross, continue on the path unit you come to a shelf with icicles on it. Use the tread softly option to get across. You will have to repeat this several times at each shelf. If you fail, you will be hit taking a small amount of damage.

Next, you will have to cross ice; this may prove a little annoying. You will take 2 damage each time you fail.

After that, you will see a small cutscene of you sliding down a hill.

Speak to the Agility Instructor , who will tell you that you have completed the agility arena and are free to return whenever you like.

Discover the penguin plan [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Larry (take off your penguin suit to be thrown (teleported) out of the facility and right next to him, or go through the gate and walk back the way you came) and tell him about the army you saw! He will tell you he needs you to find where they are making their war plans.

If you haven't already, find a dairy cow and steal a cowbell. One is located in south-east Rellekka. Then, use your Mahogany Plank on the Leather to make Penguin Bongos . If you have access to the fairy ring network and are not equipped for the upcoming fight , you can quickly bank by taking the boat back to Rellekka , and using the fairy ring just east of the dock. There is also a dairy cow just on the other side of the field in Zanaris . Return to the Iceberg (This time, Larry will not teleport you from Ardougne Zoo or the Lumbridge sheep pen; you will need to take the boat east of Rellekka .)

Tuxedo up and return to the outpost (use avalanche), but instead of turning left this time, head straight until you come to a set of massive doors. Ask the KGP Agent in the booth to the left of the doors to let you in. He will ask you for your ID and say you do not have the clearance to go through the doors.

 | The Penguin Bards

The music played by Ping and Pong.



Head back down the hallway and enter the eastern room with Ping and Pong . They will ask you for a cowbell and a set of penguin bongos . Talk to them again to give them the items.

During a cutscene , the guard will become distracted by their harmonious vibes. Leave the room and use the controls where the KGP agent used to be standing to open the large doors. The war room is to the east.

Caught by Pescaling Pax [ edit | edit source ]

 | Penguin Plots

The music which plays during various cutscenes throughout the quest.



You will see a cutscene of the penguins planning to take over RuneScape ! Due to an anti-magic system that was conveniently installed, you'll be compromised and the penguins will throw you into a cage full of icelords . To get out, you may have to kill up to three Icelords, though for some players it is possible to exit after killing just one or two Warning: Each icelord killed grants 40 Attack experience.

Note that should the player teleport out of the icelord cage, they will be sent back to the cage as soon as they arrive to the Iceberg.

Exit the cage through the fence door made of ice; then, exit through a chasm east of the Icelord cage.

Talk to Larry and inform him of your discovery. Larry will state that he has a lot to do with his other "contacts", telling you that he will call for you again when the time comes.

The War Room! Your disguise is found out! The giant penguin suit...

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 2,000 Crafting experience 5,000 Agility experience 1,500 Construction experience The ability to make the penguin suit . To enter the suit again, you must talk to Larry again at the zoo , pier, or Iceberg The ability to use the Penguin agility course Players can also steal more cowbells and make more bongos . The cowbells or the bongos can only be played in a penguin suit.

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Cold War is required for the following:

Making Friends with My Arm

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Have an Ice Day on the Iceberg Penguin Plots while entering the cabin Espionage in the avalanche The Penguin Bards during the cutscene with Peng

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

25 February 2016 ( update ) | Larry no longer allows followers onto the iceberg if you teleport with him from the Zoo in the Cold War quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The penguin is creator Andrew Gower's second favourite animal, with cabbages being his favourite. [1] This quest draws several parallels to the Cold War , a period of conflict that emerged after World War II between the West and the Eastern Bloc : The KGP is a take on the KGB , the Soviet Union 's Security Agency. The term " Motherland " was historically used in reference to the Soviet Union. The term " Comrade " was often used in the Soviet Union. Palingrad is a reference to the Russian city of Volgograd , formerly named Stalingrad. When speaking to Ping, the player will say " Sure, I haven't got anything to lose, except my eardrums". This is possibly a reference to the popular phrase from The Communist Manifesto by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels : "Workers of the world, unite! You have nothing to lose but your chains!" The posters in the penguin outpost are a reference to patriotic murals in communist countries. Throughout the quest, the player will lie to the penguins by saying that they flew by flapping their wings really fast. In addition, if you have completed Enlightened Journey , they will tell the truth saying that they flew in a hot-air balloon. If you have completed Between a Rock... , they will say they were fired out of a cannon. Later during the quest you will see a crazy penguin where they are learning to fly based on the player's answer(s). The secret phrase, "Do not trust the walrus" , might be a reference to Lewis Carroll's The Walrus and the Carpenter , in which the walrus invites some oysters to join them in a walk along the beach, but the two titular characters get hungry and eat all of the oysters. John Lennon wrote a song " I Am the Walrus " and commented, "It never dawned on me that Lewis Carroll was commenting on the capitalist and social system. ... the walrus was the bad guy in the story..." The Lumbridge penguins in sheep's costume seem to play on the idiom " Wolf in sheep's clothing ". "Curiouser and curiouser", said by the player just before talking to Fred the Farmer , is a well known line from Alice's Adventures in Wonderland . Ping and Pong talk like Beatnik s who played Bongo drum s . Cheech & Chong were a comedy duo who played stoned hippies. Oingo Boingo is the name of a music band. Ping says "We need more cowbell" , a reference to the " More Cowbell " skit on NBC's popular late night show Saturday Night Live . The skit originally aired on April 8th, 2000. Noodles is a name sometimes given to a Macaroni penguin . Cold War was the 100th members ' quest . When this update was released, penguins and the Ardougne Zoo were graphically updated. The music track Have an Ice Day is a pun on "Have a Nice Day". Ping and Pong's room has several objects in the room that have cultural references: Examining the trumpet will give the description " Miles Davis is looking for this..." , a reference to the famous American jazz musician. Examining the piano will give the description "I only know chopsticks ...", a reference to the famous Chopsticks waltz, written in 1877. When talking to Larry and first putting on the penguin suit, he tells of how he learned the shrinking spell by a man after getting stuck in an avalanche. The player responds with "Seems like a pretty wise old man" . This is a clear reference to the Wise Old Man . Larry says " Penguins walk single file to hide their numbers! ", a reference to Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope , when Ben Kenobi says to Luke Skywalker, "Sandpeople always ride single file to hide their numbers". After the quest is finished, Icelords can be accessed by once again entering a crack in the ice, to the west of the Avalanche then re-entering the cage.

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Cold War

NPCs | Larry Fred the Farmer Penguins Ping Pong Noodle Penguin Sheep Agility Instructor Army Commander KGP Agent Pescaling Pax Enemies Icelord |  | Larry Fred the Farmer | Penguins | Ping Pong Noodle Penguin Sheep Agility Instructor Army Commander KGP Agent Pescaling Pax | Enemies | Icelord

 | Larry Fred the Farmer

Penguins | Ping Pong Noodle Penguin Sheep Agility Instructor Army Commander KGP Agent Pescaling Pax

Enemies | Icelord

Items | Kgp id card Clockwork book Clockwork suit Cowbells Penguin bongos Mission reports Ardougne Lumbridge Fake |  | Kgp id card Clockwork book Clockwork suit Cowbells Penguin bongos | Mission reports | Ardougne Lumbridge Fake

 | Kgp id card Clockwork book Clockwork suit Cowbells Penguin bongos

Mission reports | Ardougne Lumbridge Fake

Locations | East Ardougne Iceberg KGP Headquarters Lumbridge

Music | Espionage Have an Ice Day The Penguin Bards Penguin Plots

Related | A crack Avalanche Quick guide Transcript Penguin Agility Course