Curse of the Empty Lord





Released | 26 July 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Mahjarrat , #8

Developer(s) | James B



Curse of the Empty Lord is a miniquest following the events of Desert Treasure I , allowing the player to obtain a set of ghostly robes .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to the mysterious ghost ( Valdez ) near Glarial's Tomb . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Follow the sad tale of woe from one cursed soul to the next and learn more of Zamorak's betrayal of Zaros.

Requirements | Started Desert Treasure I and The Restless Ghost 53 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) to obtain the Ring of visibility 31 Prayer ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) (Some players will need this to access the 2nd floor of the Edgeville Monastery )

Items required | Ring of visibility Ghostspeak amulet ( Morytania legs 2 or higher may be used instead, except when otherwise noted) Some players may need 5 coins to purchase a Shantay pass Knife or Slash Weapon for the Lava Maze

Recommended | 50 Combat level Various teleportation runes and/or jewellery (different for each player, described below) Stamina potions can be used to preserve run energy ; this is especially useful when in the Wilderness .

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | You may need to visit Entrana You will need to go into the Wilderness . To make this somewhat safer you can also do this in F2P worlds.

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the miniquest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the miniquest but will not auto-complete Desert Treasure I

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Warning: This miniquest will take you into dangerous parts of the Wilderness . Beware of player killers and that you cannot teleport after level 20 Wilderness unless you use a piece of dragonstone teleport jewellery (such as an Amulet of glory ), Slayer ring or Royal seed pod , with which you may teleport until level 30. As long as the Ring of visibility is already equipped, it is possible to complete the dialogue of ghosts in free-to-play regions of the wilderness on a free-to-play world, potentially reducing the risk from player killers.

Note: It is possible to receive multiple pieces of the Ghostly set by talking to any ghost after they tell their story. You can get any of the pieces you have already gotten from any of the ghosts you have already spoken to.

Valdez the Explorer [ edit | edit source ]

Wearing your ring of visibility and your ghostspeak amulet or Morytania legs 2 / 3 / 4 , go to Glarial's Tomb ( not the waterfall cave ) north-west of the Fishing Guild . The ghost is standing outside the tomb entrance. Note he will not appear as a dot on the minimap and his transparency makes him a bit tough to spot.

When you speak to him, he will introduce himself and relate his part of the story. He will then give you a Ghostly robe (top) and request you to find another ghost named Rennard , along with a hint on how to find him. Pay attention to the hint given , as it indicates the sequence necessary to complete the quest:

If he mentions pirates and a shipwreck , Sequence 1 must be followed for the entirety of the quest. If he mentions the thief being north-east of there, Sequence 2 must be followed for the entirety of the quest. If he mentions the thief being south-east of there, Sequence 3 must be followed for the entirety of the quest.

You must visit the ghosts in the correct order with a ring of visibility and ghostspeak amulet (or Morytania legs ) to speak to them. Additionally, all of the Mysterious ghosts in this quest appear at all three of their possible locations, but the player will not be able to progress further in the quest until the ghost is spoken to at the correct location.

Sequence 1 [ edit | edit source ]

Items recommended: Burning Amulet (teleport to Lava Maze ), Necklace of passage (teleport to Wizards' Tower )

Sequence 2 [ edit | edit source ]

Items recommended: Burning amulet (teleport to Bandit Camp and Chaos Temple), Explorer Ring (Teleport to Port Sarim docks, Mini-game Teleport to Rat Pits or glory to Draynor Village works as well), Combat bracelet , Skull sceptre , Amulet of glory , Varrock teleport (To get to Edgeville Monastery), Slayer ring , Salve graveyard teleport, Kharyrll Teleport, Ectophial , Fairy ring C K S (Slayer tower 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] ), Ring of dueling (Ferox Enclave then run to Graveyard of Shadows)

Sequence 3 [ edit | edit source ]

Items recommended: A Shantay pass , Falador teleport tabs or runes, Amulet of glory for teleporting to Al Kharid and Edgeville , Burning amulet for teleporting to the Lava Maze, 200 coins for a carpet ride, slash weapon for Lava Maze

Note: Open the Muddy chest in the Lava Maze to complete a task in the medium Wilderness diary (requires Muddy key ).

Reward [ edit | edit source ]

Ghostly hood Ghostly robe (top) Ghostly robe (bottom) Ghostly gloves Ghostly boots Ghostly cloak

Upon completion, you can talk to Historian Minas on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of the Varrock Museum to receive 10 kudos and an experience lamp worth 10,000 experience in any skill above 50.

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Curse of the Empty Lord is required for the following:

The General's Shadow

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a miniquest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the miniquest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

14 July 2016 ( update ) | The miniquest was renamed from 'The Curse of Zaros' to 'Curse of the Empty Lord'.

9 April 2015 ( update ) | Gravingas & the Ghosts from the Curse of Zaros miniquest now recognise the Morytania legs built-in ghostspeak function.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If any of the ghosts are spoken to without a ghostspeak amulet , the player may say "All your base are belong to us", as well as some other quotes. These are references to famous translation errors in the game Zero Wing . When speaking to Rennard , the player says "I ain't scared of no ghost," a reference to "I ain't afraid of no ghost" from the Ghostbusters theme song. While talking to Dhalak , he will ask the player if they are the "mighty sorcerer that binds him". If you are level 99 Magic , your character will respond by bragging about said skill mastery . If you lose any piece of the ghostly robes after the quest, the first mysterious ghost at Glarial's tomb will provide a replacement. The ghosts located in the Wilderness also appear in free-to-play worlds, as long as the player has the ring of visibility and ghostspeak amulet equipped; the player can still talk to them and receive pieces of the ghostly robes, but it will be labelled as a members object . Players can speak to the three different ghosts of Rennard from the three sequences. If they talk to the wrong one, short and funny dialogues will occur with the ghost.

v • t • e Curse of the Empty Lord

Equipment | Ghostly hood Ghostly robe top Ghostly robe bottom Ghostly gloves Ghostly boots Ghostly cloak

Ghosts | Valdez Rennard Kharrim Lennissa Dhalak Viggora

Other | Transcript The General's Shadow Ring of visibility Ghostspeak amulet

v • t • e Miniquests

 | Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl Architectural Alliance (removed) Barbarian Training Bear Your Soul Curse of the Empty Lord Daddy's Home The Enchanted Key Enter the Abyss Family Pest The Frozen Door The General's Shadow His Faithful Servants Hopespear's Will In Search of Knowledge Into the Tombs Lair of Tarn Razorlor Mage Arena I Mage Arena II Skippy and the Mogres

Unofficial miniquests | Tutorial Island Natural history quiz Restoring the Sacred Bone Burner Knight Waves Training Grounds Rogue Trader Obtaining the ancient key