 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Darkness of Hallowvale (#110)





Released | 4 September 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Myreque , #3

Lead developer(s) | Tytn H



Darkness of Hallowvale is the third quest in the Myreque series, and involves travelling to Meiyerditch to contact the Myreque faction hidden there.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Go to Burgh de Rott and into the basement of the inn there and speak to Veliaf Hurtz . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Long

Description | Fighting tooth and nail against the vampyre overlord, Drakan, the Myreque have moved their secret base camp to Burgh de Rott. Now the fight starts in earnest! Veliaf needs someone to make their way into the Sanguinesti region, the eastern side of Morytania cut off from the west behind an impenetrably huge wall. Will the fight be supported by Myreque resistance inside the vampyres' domain? What grim discoveries are to be found behind that dread wall? And what of the Vyrewatch - deadly sky-bound patrollers of the blood-tithed lands of Meiyerditch? Only a daring, quick-witted agent with an eye for detail can hope to pick their way through the tumbled down slums of Meiyerditch.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost 5 Construction ( boostable ) ( required to start ) 20 Mining ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 22 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) [1] 26 Agility ( boostable ) ( required to start ) [2] 32 Crafting ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 33 Magic ( boostable ) ( required to start ) 40 Strength ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) The ability to withstand several melee attacks from a level 169 enemy.

Items required | 8 nails 2 planks Hammer Knife (obtainable during the quest) or a sickle Means to cast Telekinetic Grab ( air and law rune ; both obtainable during the quest)

Recommended | 50 Combat level Stamina or energy potions to traverse through the maze of houses Pickaxe , highly recommended , to take a great shortcut through the city (obtainable during quest) Fast travel to several locations Burgh de Rott ( Mort'ton teleport , Shades of Mort'ton grouping teleport or Morytania legs 3 +, Barrows teleport (tablet) ) Paterdomus ( Salve Graveyard teleport , Fairy rings to C K S or Kharyrll Teleport ) Varrock ( Varrock teleport -- runes for this teleport are provided during the quest) Vyrewatch outfit ( top , legs and shoes ) as disguise against the Vyrewatch , only if your Thieving or Hitpoints are low (can be bought for 1,950 from Trader Sven during the quest) Armour and some food or 43+ Prayer to use Protect from Melee

Enemies to defeat | None - however, Vanstrom Klause (level 169) needs to be fought until he has attacked you 5 times (whether he hits or misses), and it is very possible to die. However, death can be avoided if you pray protect from melee right after you draw the third sketch.

League notes | Unlocking Morytania ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Introduction [ edit | edit source ]

Throughout the quest, you're expected to run around parts of Morytania, which can take quite some time, even with the proper teleports. To avoid having to retrace steps, be sure to read each section carefully! If you're unsure if a step is finished, check your quest log to see if it matches what's next in the walkthrough. Rushing to finish the quest can end up causing parts to be skipped and require going through all of Meiyerditch over again.

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Veliaf Hurtz in the basement of the pub in Burgh de Rott . Ask what you can do to help, then ask "How should I get into the Sanguinesti region?" to initiate the quest. He wants you to make contact with the Myreque in Meiyerditch .

Go south-east to the docks where you'll find a hut with a boat in it. You will need to repair the boat and then the boat chute, each using a plank and four nails .

You can now bank or drop your hammer. Push the boat down the chute into the water and board it. You will travel to Meiyerditch .

Welcome to Meiyerditch [ edit | edit source ]

You will arrive at the very southern, damaged end of the wall. Jump over a gap and climb up, then move to where the wall turns north (if you pass the rubble (the destroyed part of the wall) you've gone too far). Search the floor to the right of the wall (right-click option) and kick the boards in. Climb down into the passage below.

Head into the town and talk to any local citizen. Ask them about the Myreque, then whisper that you really need to meet them. They will tell you to speak to Old Man Ral . Speak to them again and ask if they can introduce you to him. They will tell you to say a friend recommended him.

Old Man Ral is a little north-east of the place you enter Meiyerditch (three buildings north of the wall rubble that you climbed over -- Old Man Ral is one building north of Trader Sven ). Speak to Old Man Ral and tell him; "Someone said you could help me", then call him the "Sage of Sanguinesti".

He should now tell you that you need to get to Sector 3 of the city by following sickle symbols on the walls.

Optional: Just to the south, Trader Sven sells the Vyrewatch outfit . While travelling through the city, the Vyrewatch will occasionally stop you and wearing the disguise causes them to do this less often. This is only recommended if you have a low Thieving or Hitpoints level, as the Vyrewatch are not very dangerous. When stopped, you have three (and later, four) options:

Pay a blood tithe (hits 6 Hitpoints ). Chosen by default if you don't select an option. "Bring it on". The Vyrewatch will attack you, allowing you to run away. The Vyrewatch are invulnerable to all sources of damage available to you at this stage. Distract him (possible to fail, costing you a blood tithe anyway). Success rate depends on your Thieving level. "Send me to the mines!" (this option appears after you've found the Myreque hideout ). You will not lose health, instead you will need to mine 15 Daeyalt ores , place them in a minecart and then talk to a guard to leave. You'll then appear in the north-east part of the city. If you have no pickaxe , a miner will supply one.

The sickle logo agility course [ edit | edit source ]

You now need to make a complex journey across the city - watch for the sickle marks or simply follow the instructions below. Make sure to have a knife or a sickle on you.

You may click each of the steps below as you do it to track your progress.

Sector 1 directions

Go to the house south-west of Old Man Ral with the door facing north (with a sickle symbol next to the door)

Climb up the ladder there.

Jump south to the floorboards.

Jump east to the floorboards.

Go to the north-east corner of the room, push the wall and walk across the gap.

Crawl under the wall to the north.

Go north to the second room, look on the west side, push the wall and go across.

Go down the ladder.

Search the table next to the west wall, open the trapdoor, and go through the resulting tunnel.

Climb up the shelf next to the sickle.

Crawl under the wall to the east side.

Jump to the floorboards to the east.

Go down the ladder.

Search the pots near the eastern door to get a door key .

Use the key to open the door in that room. You are now in sector two.

Sector 2 directions

Go up the ladder in the room to the east, by the sickle.

Jump south to the floorboards.

Go east around the wall then climb up the shelves to the south.

Go west and up the ladder.

Jump south again to the floorboards.

Go immediately down the ladder.

Go east and walk across the washing line.

Climb down the ladder.

Push the wall to the north and walk across the floor.

Climb up the shelf to the north.

Climb down the shelf in the north-eastern corner.

Jump to the floorboards to the north.

Jump to the floorboards to the north again.

Go to the north end of the building and jump to the floorboards to the east.

The ladder going down is broken and you have to repair it; so climb up the other ladder.

Search the wall (to the west) to get a ladder top .

Climb down again and repair the broken ladder (going down) with the ladder top.

Climb down the fixed ladder. You are now in sector three.

Sector 3 directions

Open the door and go north around the house.

Head straight north into the house, west of the closed diamond shaped house. If you don't have a knife yet, climb the ladder in this room to take one. Climb back down after.

Go west through the door into the next room, then north out of the house.

Head north until you reach a sickle symbol, and enter the house to the south-east.

Go up the ladder.

Jump to the floorboards to the east.

Walk down the stairs. Go around the east side of the stairs.

Search the wall and use a knife or a sickle to unlock the latch, allowing you to push it open.

Press the decorated wall.

Open the lumpy rug from the south-east square If you take too long, you will have to push the wall again as the system will quickly reset.

Climb down trapdoor to enter the hideout.

Myreque meetings [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Vertida Sefalatis in the northern room of the hideout. Tell him you've come to investigate and make contact with the Myreque, and he will give you a message to take to Veliaf Hurtz back in Burgh de Rott .

Travel back to Burgh de Rott any way you see fit (see above for options), and talk to Veliaf Hurtz in the basement of the pub again. Make sure you go through every chat option. He will tell you to talk to Drezel in the Temple of the Salve in Paterdomus (reach it via Fairy ring C K S or Salve Graveyard teleport -- alternatively, you could do Temple Trekking to get there).

Urgent business [ edit | edit source ]

Go to Drezel in Paterdomus and talk with him. He will say that strange noises have been heard outside the temple and asks you to investigate. Climb up the ladder in the west room and exit the Temple. To the west of Paterdomus, past the stairs, look for a bush that is searchable. A short cut-scene will follow where you will be knocked out. You will see werewolves that seem to have managed to get across the River Salve .

Return to Drezel, and tell him what you have just seen. He tells you to speak to King Roald and gives you runes for a Varrock Teleport .

Go to Varrock Castle , and speak with King Roald, who is on the ground floor on the east side. You will engage in a long, fruitless conversation. Afterwards, a free teleport back to Paterdomus is offered by Aeonisig Raispher . However, you will have to return to Burgh de Rott instead. Speak to Veliaf Hurtz again.

Travel once more with the boat you fixed to Meiyerditch . Head towards Vertida Sefalatis again, using the rooftop route described above or with the faster alternative method described below.

Alternative route to Vertida Sefalatis

Speak to any Vyrewatch and ask to be sent to the mines.

Mine 15 Daeyalt ores and place them in the minecart. If you have no pickaxe, talk to a miner to obtain a bronze one.

Once the mine cart is full, talk to a guard to leave. You will appear up on the surface, north-east of the slums.

See the map on the right side of this page. Follow the blue path to the first green dot.

From there, follow the old route; climb up the ladder, jump east to the floorboards, climb down the stairs, and go south-east through the hidden door.

Push the wall to the north and enter the trapdoor underneath the rug (south-east corner).

Once you're down the trapdoor, talk to Vertida Sefalatis. He will tell you to talk to Safalaan Hallow , who is standing on a wall near the castle. Ask Vertida to lead the way, and he will take you to the south of Meiyerditch .

Scoping Castle Drakan [ edit | edit source ]

Starting from the south of Meiyerditch, reach Safalaan Hallow with the following steps;

Route to Safalaan Hallow

Climb down the ladder.

Head south and climb over the wall rubble where you first came into the city.

Head south climb up the floor to get on top of the wall. Then, travel as far north on the wall as you can, until you reach a ladder you can go down.

Proceed down the ladder.

Search the rocky surface (east wall) to unlock the false wall to the north (labelled as "barricade").

Open the barricade; then go north, and climb the ladder.

Go north along the wall, up a ladder and down one to cross a gap, and keep going north until you reach the Darkmeyer south wall.

Climb the wall and go north until you see Safalaan.

Talk to Safalaan and he will tell you to sketch three sides of the castle in order -- north, west and south. There are sickle symbols on ground to tell you where to sketch, and he'll give you papyrus and charcoal to make the drawings with. Note: You might not be able to see the sickle symbols if you have certain RuneLite textures enabled. Travel to the back of the castle, going by the west path. Walk past the west sickle symbol, and then around to the north one and make a drawing while standing on the sickle symbol. Go back to the west side of the castle and make the second sketch . You will see a short cutscene, of Vanstrom Klause talking to Vanescula Drakan and Ranis Drakan. They will drink some fresh blood and then fly away.

Ambush! [ edit | edit source ]

Go to the south-eastern side of the castle (where you spoke to Safalaan ), and attempt to make another drawing on the sickle symbol there. You will be interrupted, the drawing will not be completed, and Vanstrom Klause will attack you. You cannot damage him in any way, and it is possible to die here. Vanstrom only uses melee, so Protect from Melee will stop all damage. If you die on the fifth attack from Vanstrom, you will be teleported back to your grave and the cutscene will continue. [ confirmation needed ]

After five attacks, you will be knocked out when Vanstrom is unable to kill you, and a cutscene will follow. When you recover, speak to Vanescula's servant, Sarius Guile . She gives you a long-winded hint about where to find a secret laboratory. Make sure to finish your final drawing. Your quest log should then read "I have all three sketches of the castle. I need to take them to Safalaan".

The secret laboratory [ edit | edit source ]

Return to the Myreque base in Meiyerditch via your prefered route, having a vyrewatch send you to the mine is the fastest. Just before you enter the base, head to the building with the fireplace just west of the rug entrance. If you lack a knife , climb the ladder in the building with the fireplace and grab one off the table. Use the knife on the fireplace to discover a hidden message . Using a sickle will cause it to say it's the wrong shape. Then use the knife on the portrait in the same room. If the message isn't found, attempting to cut the tapestry causes the message "you see no reason to destroy this tapestry." Search the slashed portrait to get a large ornate key . Return to Vertida , who is now accompanied by Safalaan . Give Safalaan the message you got from the fireplace and the three drawings of the castle.

After speaking to Safalaan, leave the base. Go upstairs, jump west, go down the ladder, and exit the house on the northern side. Walk through the house north. Continue north-east staying near the eastern wall. You will find the house with a clearly visible large tapestry in one of the rooms, coloured red and yellow. Enter the house and use your knife on the tapestry, then walk through it. Use the large ornate key with the vampyre statue to open the secret laboratory entrance. Do NOT try to open the door by using the key on the door as this will inflict 10 damage.

Open the door, and go down the stairs. You may search the broken rune case to the west of the staircase for some runes (including Telekinetic Grab runes). Use Telekinetic Grab on the book Haemalchemy volume 1 in the room.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Leave the room and take the book back to Safalaan . He will tell you to return to Veliaf Hurtz with a sealed message . You will now be able to use the shortcut doors on the path to the Myreque Hideout . However, this is not recommended due to this method being slower than being teleported to the mine.

Get back to Burgh de Rott via any method, and talk to Veliaf Hurtz in the basement of the pub to finish the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 7,000 Agility experience 6,000 Thieving experience 2,000 Construction experience Tome of experience , granting 2,000 experience to any three skills of the player's choosing (level 30 or over). Can be the same skill. Access to passage through two shortcut doors within Meiyerditch

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Darkness of Hallowvale is required for the following:

A Taste of Hope Burgh de Rott Ramble ( Temple Trekking )

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

While speaking with Drezel, the player will comment that they can "talk to kings without losing their common touch," which is a line from the 1895 Rudyard Kipling poem If— . When Vanstrom Klause finishes you off, his finishing move is similar to a Shoryuken from the Street Fighter series. The examine text for the boat to travel between Burgh de Rott and Meiyerditch, "It's not a schooner, it's a sailboat," is a line from the 1995 film, Mallrats. During the conversation with Vanstrom Klause and Vanescula Drakan, Vanescula says "Why, with these blood tithes you are really spoiling us!" This is a reference to a television advert "The Ambassador's Party" for Ferrero Rocher chocolate, where a character says "Monsieur, with these Rocher you are really spoiling us".

v • t • e Darkness of Hallowvale

NPCs | Meiyerditch citizen Child Old Man Ral Drezel King Roald Aeonisig Raispher Sarius Guile The Myreque Veliaf Hurtz Vertida Sefalatis Safalaan Hallow Mauritys Guile Enemies Vyrewatch Shadowy figure Vampyre Juvinate Vanescula Drakan Ranis Drakan Vanstrom Klause |  | Meiyerditch citizen Child Old Man Ral Drezel King Roald Aeonisig Raispher Sarius Guile | The Myreque | Veliaf Hurtz Vertida Sefalatis Safalaan Hallow Mauritys Guile | Enemies | Vyrewatch Shadowy figure Vampyre Juvinate Vanescula Drakan Ranis Drakan Vanstrom Klause

 | Meiyerditch citizen Child Old Man Ral Drezel King Roald Aeonisig Raispher Sarius Guile

The Myreque | Veliaf Hurtz Vertida Sefalatis Safalaan Hallow Mauritys Guile

Enemies | Vyrewatch Shadowy figure Vampyre Juvinate Vanescula Drakan Ranis Drakan Vanstrom Klause

Items | Ladder top Message Castle sketch 1 Castle sketch 2 Castle sketch 3 Message Large ornate key Haemalchemy volume 1 Sealed message Door key Daeyalt ore Blood tithe pouch Citizen outfit Citizen top Citizen trousers Citizen shoes Vyrewatch outfit Vyrewatch top Vyrewatch legs Vyrewatch shoes Discontinued Shortcut key |  | Ladder top Message Castle sketch 1 Castle sketch 2 Castle sketch 3 Message Large ornate key Haemalchemy volume 1 Sealed message Door key Daeyalt ore Blood tithe pouch | Citizen outfit | Citizen top Citizen trousers Citizen shoes | Vyrewatch outfit | Vyrewatch top Vyrewatch legs Vyrewatch shoes | Discontinued | Shortcut key

 | Ladder top Message Castle sketch 1 Castle sketch 2 Castle sketch 3 Message Large ornate key Haemalchemy volume 1 Sealed message Door key Daeyalt ore Blood tithe pouch

Citizen outfit | Citizen top Citizen trousers Citizen shoes

Vyrewatch outfit | Vyrewatch top Vyrewatch legs Vyrewatch shoes

Discontinued | Shortcut key

Rewards | Tome of experience

Locations | Burgh de Rott Meiyerditch Myreque Hideout Meiyerditch Laboratories

Music | The Last Shanty Lament of Meiyerditch Night of the Vampyre Morytanian Mystery Domain of the Vampyres

Scenery | Boat Boat Chute Sickle logo Decorated wall Lumpy rug Portrait Vampyre statue Broken rune case

Related | Quick guide Transcript