 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Death on the Isle (#167)





Released | 25 September 2024 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Mod Other



Death on the Isle is a murder mystery quest set on the island of Aldarin .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Patzi by the entrance to Villa Lucens . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | Solve a mysterious murder on the island of Aldarin.

Requirements | 34 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 32 Agility ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Children of the Sun

Items required | None

Recommended | 20 coins to use the transportation boat 40

Enemies to defeat | Two low-level enemies must be fought with no equipment

League notes | Varlamore ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting the right fit [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Patzi at the entrance to Villa Lucens . He will ask that you help him with a new play that is due to be performed at the villa, whose owner is a patron of the arts and is hosting a party for the play. He will ask that you acquire a butler's uniform to help him fit in; Adala , Patzi's bag carrier, suggests "borrowing" one and tells you she recalls seeing some through a window in a villa to the north.

The villa in question is found just west of the Aldarin General Store . Break into the villa via the house window on the south side once the Wandering Guard is far enough, then take a uniform from the wardrobe nearby.

Return to Patzi, who will then ask that you follow along Adala to the staff entrance to blend in. Wear your uniform, then head south along the hedge until you see the Head Butler . He will inform you of the rules whilst inside the villa, and will hold onto your items before entering for security purposes.

Inside Villa Lucens [ edit | edit source ]

Once inside Villa Lucens, you will be wearing one of several possible masks ( snake mask , ram mask , jaguar mask , wolf mask or bird mask ) and butler's tray alongside your uniform. You will find Patzi by the eastern exit, who will tell you to introduce yourself to the guests on his behalf; however, as a butler, he will ask that you at least get their names for him.

Speak to Constantinius , who you find out is the host of the party, and then the three guests: Cozyac , Pavo , and Xocotla . After doing so, you will relay what you've learned to Patzi, who then asks you to fetch him a glass of Principum Red in the wine cellar . Head outside and enter the cellar entrance , then head to the south-west room and investigate the antique wine along the south wall.

As you attempt to retrieve some wine from the antique wine jug, you will hear glass breaking in another part of the cellar, spilling some on you. Head to the south-east corner to find a fallen man. Upon investigating him, two guards, Stradius and Hutza , will accuse you of murder and take you away to a small room in the villa. After some questioning, you offer to help solve the murder of Livius , an actor who was due to perform on stage. They will give you a case file and ask you to investigate the crime scene.

Playing detective [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Constantinius, Cozyac, Pavo, and Xocotla again, then return to the wine cellar and investigate the following:

Jug by the stairs Small box in south room Broken stool in south room Wine storage in east room Broken pottery in east room Livius' corpse

After investigating everything, speak to Stradius and Hutza to discuss your findings. You will not find sufficient evidence to accuse the guests, but believe the butlers may be suspicious like you were, and will attempt to pickpocket them in hopes of finding something of note.

Pickpocket the following people for your investigation:

Cozyac - threatening note Pavo - drinking flask Xocotla - shipping contract Adala - wine labels

After inspecting each item, return to the guards and they will gather everyone on the top floor. Speak to all the suspects, then place your accusations on Adala, who admits to being in the cellar to steal the extremely valuable Principum Red . However, she claims not to have killed Livius and starts attacking the player. She is level 49, and has no special mechanics to attack with. Once either of you are close to death, she will stop and claim that she's too weak to kill Livius or you depending on how the fight went. She will then be taken away.

The Show Must Go On [ edit | edit source ]

Though the killer is still at large, Constantinius demands that the show must go on, and asks that you keep an eye on the situation behind the scenes. He will tell you to use the back way around the theatre so as to not attract attention.

Use the southern path down the steps that leads around the cliffs until you reach a set of loose rocks by the shortcut icon. Navigate through them and speak to the guards - they will ask that you investigate the backstage downstairs to check for additional clues.

Enter the backstage entrance then speak to the costumer , and ask about the actors. Then search the following:

The crate next to the exit containing poison The costume rack behind the mirror containing Naiatli's wine-stained costume The bookshelf hiding a secret passage to the wine cellar

After searching the aforementioned objects, speak to the costumer and ask her about each of them. Next, return to the guards and accuse Naiatli of being the culprit. However, the play has started already, and you decide to step into the limelight.

As you accuse Naiatli of her crimes whilst doing so under the guise of improvising the play, you begin to attack her with a prop sword while she continues to "perform". Whenever she runs away, resume attacking her until she "dies". You will find out that in reality, Naiatli only tripped him in an attempt to injure Livius so that he would be unable to perform the play, but was far too drunk and fell harder than anticipated.

Stradius and Hutza will thank you for your assistance and apologise for hastily accusing you, and the quest will be completed!

Before leaving Villa Lucens, players can claim some rewards:

Speak to the Head Butler in the kitchen to obtain the masks ( ram , wolf , bird , jaguar , and snake ) that you and the butlers wore during the quest, as well as the butler's tray you used. Speak to the costumer for a costume needle , which can be used for Crafting in place of a regular needle , without needing any thread . Pickpocketing Constantinius for a chest key , which is used to open the fancy chest in the wine cellar. This allows the fountain to the south-west of the villa to be searched for an icon , which is then used to activate the statue on the North-East corner of the island. This drops one water rune on the ground and unlocks a teleport destination on a pendant of ates .

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 10,000 Thieving experience 7,500 Agility experience 5,000 Crafting experience A costume needle from the costumer The butler's tray and an assortment of masks from the Head Butler The ability to unlock the North Aldarin teleport destination via the pendant of ates

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest. Click here for a transcript of the quest's journal entry.

Gallery [ edit | edit source ]

Concept art of Villa Lucens, by Mod Jerv . Concept art of the villa's theatre, by Mod Jerv. Concept art of the main cast, by Mod Jerv. Concept art of various quest NPCs, by Mod Jerv. Concept art of the animal masks and butler uniform, by Mod Jerv.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The quest's name is a reference to Agatha Christie's 1937 detective novel Death on the Nile . When first infiltrating the manor as a butler, Patzi will comment how amazing the player looks. If The Fremennik Isles quest has been completed, the player will reply " I feel like a court jester... and not for the first time either. ". When accusing Adala , she responds, " And I probably would've got away with it too, if it wasn't for this precocious butler turned investigator you hired! ". This line likely references the Scooby-Doo! franchise, where villains often exclaim, " And I would have gotten away with it too, if it weren't for you meddling kids! " when caught.

v • t • e Death on the Isle

NPCs | Constantinius Villa Guard Head Butler Hutza Stradius Party guests Adala Patzi Cozyac Pavo Xocotla Theatre troupe Costumer Livius Naiatli Clodius |  | Constantinius Villa Guard Head Butler Hutza Stradius | Party guests | Adala Patzi Cozyac Pavo Xocotla | Theatre troupe | Costumer Livius Naiatli Clodius

 | Constantinius Villa Guard Head Butler Hutza Stradius

Party guests | Adala Patzi Cozyac Pavo Xocotla

Theatre troupe | Costumer Livius Naiatli Clodius

Items | Butler's uniform (top) Butler's uniform (bottom) Butler's tray Prop sword Animal masks Bird Jaguar Ram Snake Wolf Murder investigation Case file Drinking flask Threatening note Shipping contract Wine labels |  | Butler's uniform (top) Butler's uniform (bottom) Butler's tray Prop sword | Animal masks | Bird Jaguar Ram Snake Wolf | Murder investigation | Case file Drinking flask Threatening note Shipping contract Wine labels

 | Butler's uniform (top) Butler's uniform (bottom) Butler's tray Prop sword

Animal masks | Bird Jaguar Ram Snake Wolf

Murder investigation | Case file Drinking flask Threatening note Shipping contract Wine labels

Related | Quick guide Transcript Journal Chest key Icon