 | This quest has a quick guide and a speedrunning guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Demon Slayer (#2)





Released | 4 January 2001 ( Update )

Members | No

Quest series | Demon Slayer , #1

Lead developer(s) | Paul Gower



Demon Slayer is one of six quests released with the launch of RuneScape . In it, players are tasked with protecting Varrock from a powerful demon .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Aris in the tent on the western side of Varrock Square . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Short

Description | A mighty demon is being summoned to destroy the city of Varrock. You find out you are the one destined to stop him (or at least try).

Requirements | The ability to defeat a level 27 demon aided by three level 20 Dark wizards and two level 7 Dark wizards using the Silverlight in melee.

Items required | Bucket of water (can be obtained during the quest) 25 bones (can't be noted , but can be delivered in increments) 1 coin

Recommended | 15 Combat level Armour and some food Fast travel to Varrock ( Varrock teleport , Chronicle or combat bracelet to the Champions' Guild ( members only) ) Fast travel to the Wizards' Tower ( necklace of passage , amulet of glory to Draynor Village , amulet of the eye , or fairy rings to D I S ) (members only)

Enemies to defeat | Delrith (level 27)

League notes | Misthalin ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Aris in the tent on the western side of Varrock Square . Pay her one coin , and she will tell you a story involving a demon named Delrith who terrorized Varrock over a century prior. Delrith was previously defeated by a hero named Wally ; just your luck, the demon is being summoned again, and you now have to kill him with Wally's sword Silverlight .

Ask Aris, "So, how did Wally kill the demon?" She will show you the incantation Wally used: write down or screenshot the phrase, as it will be important later on. The word order of this spell is randomised for every player. After telling you the incantation, she tells you to talk to Sir Prysin to help.

Go north to Varrock Palace . Sir Prysin will be wandering the south-west portion of the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] of the castle. Talk to him and tell him that Aris sent you. Ask for Silverlight , the weapon needed to kill Delrith. He will say that he kept it hidden because of it being so powerful and it needs three keys to open it. He will tell you that he lost his key somewhere, and the other two keys are in the possession of Captain Rovin and the Wizard Traiborn .

Captain Rovin's key [ edit | edit source ]

One of the keys may be obtained by speaking to Captain Rovin , who is found on the 2 nd floor [ UK ] 3 rd floor [ US ] of the Varrock Palace , on the north-west side. Climb up the stairs in the north-west room twice in order to reach him.

Talk to him and tell him that you need the key in order to recover Silverlight to slay a demon that threatens the city. Mention that Sir Prysin said Captain Rovin would give the key to you, to which he will rant about the King being the only one to tell him what to do. Next, ask him why Sir Prysin gave the key to him in the first place, and he'll state the King made Sir Prysin give him the key so that it wouldn't get lost. After this dialogue, he'll then hand over the key, under the condition that you do not allow Sir Prysin to kill the demon.

Wizard Traiborn's key [ edit | edit source ]

Head to the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of the Wizards' Tower , which stands on an island south of Draynor Village . Talk to Traiborn about the key, to which he'll say he doesn't have it; ask about some keys knocking around, and Traiborn will explain that they're in a magical wardrobe, for which he needs 25 regular bones to open.

You can save time by having all of the bones with you when you first speak to him. An easy way to get the bones is to kill goblins south of the prison outside of Draynor Village. Once you have all 25, give Traiborn the bones, and he will perform his ritual and then give you his key.

Note for Ultimate Ironmen: You can deliver the bones in increments, so you do not need to clear out your inventory to complete this step.

Note: if you die with Wizard Traiborn's key, you will have to pay another 25 bones to re-retrieve the key.

Sir Prysin's key [ edit | edit source ]

Head back to Varrock palace, and go into the kitchen in the north-east corner of the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] . If you do not already have a bucket of water, you can find an empty bucket up the stairs, in the bedroom to the north-east. With the bucket, return to the kitchen and use it on the sink (or any other water source, such as a fountain), to obtain a bucket of water.

Next, head outside through kitchen door and look for a drain near the wall north of the doorway. Use your bucket of water on the drain. If you do not do this, you cannot obtain the key . The key will be washed down the drain, so you must now retrieve it from the sewer below. Head east, out of the palace, and look for a manhole located south of the palace's east walls. It is marked by the icon on the minimap . Once you find it, open the manhole and climb down to enter the sewer.

While in the sewer, go north-west and follow the path highlighted on the map above until you reach a stream. You should see a muddy patch to your left, next to a pile of skeletons. Examine this and you will find a rusty key .

Silverlight [ edit | edit source ]

Now that you have all three keys, head back to Sir Prysin in Varrock. Give him the keys, and he will give you Silverlight . Players can drop Silverlight and ask Sir Prysin for another one for free; after the quest he will charge 500 . Equip the sword, get any food and armour you may need for combat, and prepare to fight Delrith.

If you have forgotten the magical incantation, you can speak with Aris at her tent in Varrock Square to hear it again.

When you're ready, head south of Varrock , and go east towards the stone circle surrounded by dark wizards . A cutscene will play of Delrith being summoned by the wizards after you enter the circle.

Banishing Delrith [ edit | edit source ]

The final part takes place in an instance of the Varrock stone circle , with Delrith and several dark wizards (two level 7 wizards and a level 20 wizard). Level 7 and 20 wizards will be aggressive to players with lower than 15 or 41 combat level respectively. Additionally, upon the cutscene finishing for the first time, one of the level 7 wizards will attack regardless of combat level. The level 20 wizard's maximum hit of 6 can threaten players with a low Hitpoints level, especially if the player has negative Magic Defence bonus. To leave, run to the edge at any time during the fight.

Because the fight takes place in a single-way combat zone, if you are already under attack from a dark wizard, you will need to kill or hide from it before you are able to begin combat with Delrith. It is recommended for lower-level players to approach from the south, and hide from wizards behind the southernmost stone wall until Delrith is nearby. Since the wizards do not respawn in the instance, it is also possible to kill them first, leave and restock, and then return to face Delrith.

Attack Delrith with Silverlight equipped. Despite his combat level of 27, the Silverlight's weakening effect will reduce Delrith's hitpoints to less than that of a cow . When he reaches 0 hitpoints, say the magical incantation. If the wrong incantation is said, Delrith regenerates to full health.

For those wishing to attack with magic, wielding Silverlight and manually casting spells will also deal damage. Other methods include flinching him or using Confuse , Curse , or Weaken to make him easier to kill with melee. Ring of recoils can be used for this fight.

If you take too long to finish off Delrith , he will disappear and you will need to leave and re-enter the instance. If Delrith disappears during the dialogue to banish him the quest can still be completed by pressing "continue" until the end.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points Silverlight (if lost, players may retrieve it from Sir Prysin for a fee of 500 coins .) 5 Kudos , which members can claim by talking to Historian Minas in the Varrock Museum

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Demon Slayer is required for the following:

Recipe for Disaster/Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Shadow of the Storm Defender of Varrock

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

29 November 2018 ( update ) | Silverlight obtained at the beginning of Shadow of the Storm can no longer be used to complete the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

While speaking to Captain Rovin to obtain his key, your character will state what happened to Sir Prysin's key even if your character has not yet asked Sir Prysin for it.

v • t • e Demon Slayer

NPCs | Aris Wally Sir Prysin Captain Rovin Wizard Traiborn Enemies Dark wizard Denath Delrith |  | Aris Wally Sir Prysin Captain Rovin Wizard Traiborn | Enemies | Dark wizard Denath Delrith

 | Aris Wally Sir Prysin Captain Rovin Wizard Traiborn

Enemies | Dark wizard Denath Delrith

Items | Silverlight Keys Sir Prysin Captain Rovin Wizard Traiborn |  | Silverlight | Keys | Sir Prysin Captain Rovin Wizard Traiborn

 | Silverlight

Keys | Sir Prysin Captain Rovin Wizard Traiborn

Related | Quick guide ( speedrunning ) Transcript Stone table