 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Desert Treasure I (#77)





Released | 18 April 2005 ( Update )

Also called | DT, DT1

Members | Yes

Quest series | Mahjarrat , #7

Lead developer(s) | James B



Desert Treasure I is a quest surrounding the Mahjarrat Azzanadra 's escape from his pyramid prison in the Kharidian Desert . The quest is known for rewarding players with the powerful Ancient Magicks spellbook .

A grandmaster-difficulty sequel to the quest called Desert Treasure II - The Fallen Empire was released on 26 July 2023 .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Asgarnia Smith at the Bedabin Camp . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Long

Description | Rumours abound throughout Varrock and Al-Kharid that an archaeologist has discovered clues to a hoard of treasure hidden deep in the desert, south of Al-Kharid.
Anybody prepared to offer him assistance in his treasure hunting could well find themselves benefitting from a very large reward indeed...

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: The Dig Site Temple of Ikov The Tourist Trap Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Priest in Peril Waterfall Quest 53 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) 50 Magic ( not boostable ) 50 Firemaking ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 10 Slayer ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) or the gas mask from Plague City Access to Morytania Graveyard

Items required | 10+ Shantay passes or a way to enter the Kharidian Desert without one 650 Coins 12 Magic logs (can be noted) 6 Steel bar (can be noted) 6 Molten glass (can be noted) Ashes Charcoal 1 blood rune Bones (can be noted to prevent accidental burial) A silver bar Garlic powder (made by grinding garlic in a pestle and mortar ) Spice ( gnome spice and Evil Dave 's spices will not work) A sweet ( cake , chocolate cake (part cakes are accepted), or chocolate bar ) Spiked boots (obtainable during the quest by bringing Dunstan climbing boots and an iron bar ; do so before attempting to obtain the ice diamond ) Climbing boots (if Eadgar's Ruse isn't completed and/or you lack 61 Magic for the Trollheim Teleport ) A facemask , slayer helmet , or gas mask A tinderbox 20-50+ lockpicks

Recommended | 70 Combat level Started Nature Spirit to enter Mort Myre Swamp High-healing Food Prayer potions ( highly recommended) Super restore or Menaphite remedy potions ( highly recommended) Antidote++ or antipoisons (especially if Ironman ) ( highly recommended) Ice gloves or Smiths gloves (i) (to be able to wield a weapon against Fareed if not using water spells with runes only) Stamina , super energy or energy potions Weight-reducing clothing to lower run energy drain and restore run energy faster Coins for magic carpet rides (bring a ring of charos (a) for discounted rides) Ring of dueling (easy access to Kharidian Desert ) Digsite pendant (easy access to Exam Centre ) Ectophial (easy access to Morytania ) Skills necklace or Necklace of passage (easy access to Rasolo ) Runes to cast Paddewwa Teleport to complete a Varrock Hard Diary task 80,000 Coins if purchasing an Ancient Staff after the quest from Eblis

Enemies to defeat | Dessous (level 139) 5 ice trolls (level 120-124) Kamil (level 154) Fareed (level 167) Damis (2 forms, levels 103 and 174) You will also need to tank hits by many high level enemies throughout most parts of the quest.

Ironman concerns | The player briefly visits Entrana . Player will need to obtain Magic logs ; see the "enchanting the mirrors" section for more information

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Introduction [ edit | edit source ]

Desert Treasure is one of RuneScape 's most well-known quests, and is commonly completed by player killers for its reward of the Ice Spells . Due to the difficulty of the quest's bosses, players are highly advised to read through each section before starting the fights, as each boss has unique fight mechanics that heavily favour certain combat styles, including immunity to specific spells. Pures wishing to avoid gaining Hitpoints experience should note that all of the bosses may be defeated with the help of a cannon , but should be prepared to use 500 or more cannonballs due to the high amount of combat throughout the quest. See the "notes for pures" section under each boss for more information.

Before starting, note that if you're carrying one or more of the Diamonds of Azzanadra , you may be attacked by a level 95 Stranger who appears next to you and carries a poisoned dragon dagger . This is random and does not happen to everyone, but can happen at any point where the diamonds are in your inventory.

To be safe, players may want to carry a teleport and antipoison when moving the diamonds, and ensure having some spare prayer points until the quest is completed. Players can flee from him when he appears, and simply banking the diamonds will prevent him from appearing further, but players should be warned that he can strike almost immediately after the diamonds are received from their respective bosses.

Ultimate ironmen can deposit each diamond into the pyramid as they acquire them so as not to risk attack; see the Ancient Pyramid section below for more information.

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Enchanting the mirrors [ edit | edit source ]

Travel through the Shantay Pass south of Al Kharid , and then west via flying carpet or by running to the Bedabin Camp . Fairy ring code B I Q , near the Kalphite Lair , is north-east of the camp. Talk to Asgarnia Smith near the small water pool, and he'll give you some etchings to bring to Terry Balando , the archaeological expert, at the Digsite Exam Centre .

Go to the Digsite, east of Varrock , and talk to Terry in the Exam Centre, who will take the etchings. Talk to him again to receive the translation to take back to Asgarnia Smith.

Go back to Asgarnia Smith in the desert. When talking to him, choose the Don't read book option. Talk to him again and agree to help.

Go south to the Bandit Camp . Before entering the camp, remove any equipment that depicts Saradomin or Zamorak imagery, otherwise the bandits will be aggressive . Talk to the bartender and buy a drink for 650 coins . Talk to him again to find out about the four Diamonds of Azzanadra . This step must be completed before talking to Eblis otherwise the option to talk with him about the diamonds won't appear.

Talk to Eblis in a nearby building to the east, past the general store . Ask him about the diamonds, and he'll tell you that he needs various items to create some scrying glasses:

Item | GE Price | Notes and ironman concerns

x 12 | 12,336 | There are many ways to obtain magic logs: Cutting a magic tree (75 , boostable) Looting Nature Implings (58 , boostable) Opening supply crates from Wintertodt Looting the Brimstone Chest Defeating various Revenants Completing Hunters' Rumours Opening Larran's big or small chests, using Larran's keys obtained through Wilderness Slayer

x 6 | 486 | Can be made at 1

x 6 | 4,050 | Requires 30 , or dropped by various monsters

x 1 | 84 | Can be obtained from any fire

x 1 | 314 | 4 spawn in the Wilderness

x 1 | 66 | See all bone spawn locations here

x 1 | 216 | See all charcoal spawn locations here

Total: | 17,552 | It's possible for level three ironmen to obtain all items

Wearing a Zamorak item when giving Eblis the items will cause Eblis to not create the scrying glasses!

Bring Eblis the items required. Make sure to use the bones on him instead of burying them, noting them will avoid this.

After giving him the items, Eblis will have travelled south-east on top of a hill (shown as a grey circle on the minimap), surrounded by six mirrors. Looking into them will show locations related to the diamonds, though it is not required.

Talk to Eblis again and he'll explain that his spell only makes the mirrors reveal where the diamonds have been at one point in time. Two of the mirrors show other locations entirely; the Bedabin Camp , which you visited, and the Ancient Pyramid itself, which you need to acquire the diamonds in order to enter.

Diamonds can be acquired in any order. The order below is sorted from easiest to hardest.

Smoke diamond [ edit | edit source ]

Fareed is widely considered the easiest boss of the quest, due to the fact that he uses melee almost exclusively. Keep the following in mind during this section:

Those coming directly from the ice diamond section must restore their Firemaking , as the torches require at least level 50 Firemaking to light. A facemask , slayer helmet , or a gas mask must be worn at all times while in the dungeon, or the player will be hit for 20 damage every 12 seconds. While this smoke effect won't kill you (it will never damage you below 1 hitpoint), various monsters can still deal damage, posing a significant risk for low-level players should they accidentally enter combat.

With gate responsibility [ edit | edit source ]

Take all of the items listed above and travel to the Smoke Dungeon . The dungeon entrance is marked on the world map; hug the cliffs on the west side of Pollnivneach , and head south to find it. Climb down the well, and if it stops you with a warning about the air inside, just try to climb down again.

In each of the four corners of the dungeon are standing torches that you need to light using your tinderbox . The torches will burn out if you take too long; if you walk instead of run, the first lamp will have burnt out by the time you reach the burnt chest . As such, it is recommended to use energy potions or stamina potions to maintain run energy.

While the torches can be lit in any order, it's recommended to start with the north-eastern torch, as it's the farthest from the chest. From there, the torches can be lit in under two minutes if running to the south-eastern torch second, the north-western torch third, and finishing at the southwest torch, allowing you to quickly run to the chest.

When all four are lit, go to the centre of the dungeon and open the burnt chest to obtain the warm key . If the key is lost before being used to unlock the gate, it can be reobtained from the chest without needing to relight the torches.

Facing Fareed [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to the east part of the dungeon and use the key on the gate to begin the fight with Fareed .

If you leave the fight before killing Fareed, you will NOT need to get the Warm Key again.

Despite his simplicity, Fareed should not be underestimated. His main attack is a melee hit that can deal up to 40 damage (or 36 with ice gloves). Protect from Melee negates all damage from his melee attack; those with low Hitpoints who do not have 43 Prayer should ensure they are not in melee range. Fareed also has a Magic attack, but it can only be cast in melee distance. While it's very uncommon for him to use the attack, it can still hit in the 20's, so Magic defence is recommended to supplement melee protection prayers. If the player doesn't have ice gloves equipped, Fareed will repeatedly remove the player's weapon to their inventory . This makes melee impossible for those without the gloves; combined with his high melee defence, and his ability to hit with magic while in melee range, melee is not recommended when fighting him. Magic is the most effective attack style , as Fareed is very weak to water spells . Mages should note that any other spell type will not work against him, including God spells and the trident of the seas and swamp . Players can bypass the need for ice gloves by manually casting spells from their spellbook. Range is also fairly effective; although as before, ice gloves are required to wield a bow around him when in melee distance. It may be advisible to use cheap ammunition on Fareed, as any ammunition used besides ice arrows will drop beneath him as ashes , bypassing the ammo-saving effect of Ava's accumulator and Ava's assembler . Bind , snare , or entangle can be used to stop him from moving, though moving too far out of range will cause him to despawn. Using the technique of binding him and running away (known as kiting ), players can avoid the need for prayer or ice gloves by preventing him from ever getting in melee distance. Fareed can also be trapped and safespotted behind another player. The dwarf multicannon works in the dungeon.

Upon defeating Fareed, the Smoke diamond will appear in your inventory. If lost, it will reappear in the chamber on the ground when the player walks through the gate. Fareed will not have to be fought again.

Shadow diamond [ edit | edit source ]

Damis is similar to Fareed in that he uses melee and can be easily safespotted. While the fight is fairly straightforward, his section is one of the longest, so keep the following in mind to avoid multiple trips, and ensure a successful fight:

Rasolo must be spoken to before the chest can be picked open. There is a large amount of running for this section, making stamina or restore potions beneficial. Contrary to popular belief, Damis is not particularly weak to earth spells.

Giving a ring [ edit | edit source ]

Travel west of the Fishing Guild to the entrance of the Tourist Information Centre . Just east of the Tourist Information Centre lies a fenced area, with a wandering man named Rasolo nearby. Talk to Rasolo, asking about the diamonds, and he'll offer to give you a ring of visibility in exchange for a gilded cross .

Take some food , lockpicks and antipoison to the Bandit Camp ; for ironmen, note that both lockpicks and antipoisons may be pickpocketed from the Bandits in the vicinity. In the southern-most tent in the Bandit Camp is a secure chest , requiring 53 Thieving to open. Use lockpicks on it until all 3 locks bypassed, and the chest is opened; then, search the open chest to receive the gilded cross and 150 Thieving experience .

This section is straightforward, but many players find this section to be tedious and require many tries. If a player fails to open any of the locks, all of the previous locks are reset, and the player's lockpick will break. Each failed attempt will deal 2—3 damage, as well as have a chance to apply poison to the player if not protected. For those who find themselves running out of food or lockpicks, the nearby Tiles will un-note additional supplies 5 coins each, allowing players to bring larger stacks of items.

If the cross is lost, search the chest again to receive a new one; it does not need to be re-picked.

Defeating Damis [ edit | edit source ]

Shadow Dungeon

1. Entrance east of Baxtorian Falls with ring of visibility | G – Giant skeletons (level 80)

2. Damis | S – Shadow hounds (level 63)

Return to Rasolo and exchange the gilded cross for the ring of visibility . Equip the ring, and a ladder will appear to the east of Rasolo in the fenced area. Climb down the ladder, then head east as far as you can, then north as far as you can. Head east again, and go south as far as possible at the first fork. Go east again. After this, take the next turn north, then go east, and you will reach Damis ' cave. Beware that the area where Damis is encountered is a multi-combat area , filled with giant skeletons and shadow hounds . These monsters solely use melee, so activating Protect from Melee will negate all damage.

Once Damis' cave is reached, it's time for the fight. If he does not spawn, players can make Damis appear by running around a bit in the final area. You must have the ring of visibility equipped or he will not appear; make sure to keep the ring equipped for the entire fight .

Note: It is possible for Damis to not appear right away. Un-equipping and re-equipping the ring of visibility may help, as well as walking around the arena close to the walls. If he still doesn't appear, hopping worlds should work.

If you teleport out after defeating him without picking up the diamond, it will remain on the ground and you can come back to pick it up, without having to fight him again. Additionally, players may find it beneficial to kill a shadow hound while in the dungeon, to complete a task for the Hard Kandarin Diary .

Damis has two forms. The first is level 103 which only attacks with Melee , and the second form is level 174 and rapidly drains Prayer when attacking you. The second form is significantly harder, and has an attack speed of 3, as well as being able to hit up to 28 while draining 5% + 1 of your current Prayer points every tick (0.6 seconds). At 43 prayer, this attack will drain 3 prayer points every tick. Combined with normal rate of prayer drain, this means that players will lose 16 points every three seconds. This prayer drain only triggers when Damis is in melee distance; safespotting him allows players to ignore this mechanic completely. With Protect from Melee, Damis is not much more difficult than any other monster, although you'll need to ensure you have enough prayer potions to account for his prayer drain. Make sure to watch your prayer points so that you don't run out. The most common way of defeating Damis is with magic. While it is possible to use Melee, his Melee defence is very high, on top of subjecting players to the prayer drain. Damis is not particularly weak to earth spells; [1] any spell will suffice. You can use a trident of the seas for both forms. Unless safespotting, you will rely heavily on Protect from Melee , as without it activated, you'll be tanking 2-4 giant skeletons and shadow hounds while trying to kill Damis , all of whom attack accurately with Melee. Without Protect from Melee, prepare to take large amounts of damage very quickly. To simply tank Damis without using prayer potions, it is recommended to have level 65 to 70 melee stats at minimum, a divine super combat potion , and a full inventory of high-healing food ( karambwan or better). Poisoning Damis is also helpful. If you leave after defeating his first form, you do not have to fight it again! When you return, you will only have to defeat his second form, allowing players to re-supply if necessary. Bringing a stamina potion and kiting him around the arena will help reduce the burden of using prayer potions . Casting Snare / Entangle on Damis and re-casting once he moves can help keep him from ever coming within Melee distance. A player uses a giant rat to Safespot Damis .

If you plan to use the Safespot , lure his first form there, as otherwise, his second form will just disappear into the shadows. The safespot is easy to set up: as soon as Damis spawns, head to the safespot, using the torches to your advantage. Due to the dungeon being multicombat, you can use other creatures such as the giant rat and the bat found in the south-west corner of the arena from which you entered as blockers. To do so, simply position yourself behind the animal and attack it with a weak attack or spell, then attack Damis with Magic. Consider bringing a fun weapon such as flowers to draw the creatures' attention without killing it. You can also poison Damis, and then use the safespotting method to let the poison lower his health; he rarely despawns. Cannons can be set up in this area. For those without access to prayer, the south-eastern-most area of the dungeon is just wide enough to fit a cannon, but narrow enough to trap Damis while setting it up.

Once you have defeated Damis in his second form, he will drop the shadow diamond on the ground. Once the diamond is in players' inventories, they can safely teleport out of the dungeon. If the diamond is lost, simply crossing the corridor into the multi-combat zone, the area where Damis spawns, will make the diamond reappear on the ground.

Blood diamond [ edit | edit source ]

Dessous is a fairly straightforward boss, but due to his location, forgetting steps can cost a lot of time. Keep the following in mind:

The pot cannot be made ahead of time,  you need to get instructions from Malak first. Save gearing up until after you get the silver pot , as you'll need to go to Entrana to get it blessed, and combat items aren't allowed on the island. If you plan on using the Shades of Mort'ton minigame teleport and the Hollows boat , make sure to bring 10 coins or a Ring of charos(a) for the ride.

Sweetening the pot [ edit | edit source ]

Travel to Canifis ( fairy ring code C K S ), and talk to Malak in the pub. Tell him that you're looking for a diamond. He'll agree to give it to you if you kill Dessous and gives you a list of items that you'll need to kill him successfully. Make sure to ask Malak how to kill Dessous before you go to Ruantun or he won't make the silver pot for you. Travel to Draynor , there is garlic in the cupboard upstairs in Morgan 's house if you need it. Bring your silver bar down the trapdoor, west of Morgan's house, to enter Draynor Sewers . In the sewers, go east, then north and talk to Ruantun . Ask him to make you a silver pot .

Take the pot to Entrana (making sure you have no weapons / armour on you; there's a deposit box at the ship that can be used to bank before embarking), and head to the church, then use the silver pot on the High Priest to get it blessed. Go back to Canifis, and talk to Malak again, and he'll fill the pot with your blood (this will damage you for 5 Hitpoints , but cannot kill you). Finally, add the garlic powder to the pot along with some spice to prepare for the battle. The High Priest will still bless a silver pot filled with blood, though he will be slightly shocked, if the instructions are done out of order.

The examine for the pot should read: A blessed silver pot filled with blood, garlic and spices.

If the examine does not say this and you attempt to kill Dessous, he will regenerate to full Hitpoints, and you will need to refill the pot.

Dealing with Dessous [ edit | edit source ]

Once the pot is prepared, gear up and go to the Morytania Graveyard - see Dessous 's page for routes there. Once you arrive, pour the blood on the tomb and Dessous will appear.

Dessous is a tier 1 vampyre , meaning that silver weaponry is not required to damage him, though they do gain a 10% damage bonus. The Ivandis flail and blisterwood flail give greater bonuses, but Dessous's weakness to stab means a stab weapon such as a dragon sword is a better option if using melee. Efaritay's aid will give regular weapons a 10% damage bonus against Dessous. He also has low Magic defence , so the highest max hit spell you can cast will make it possible to kill him quickly. Dessous sometimes teleports to you if you use prayer. He may occasionally still do so randomly however. He will not teleport if you are within melee range. If you make him teleport more than three times, he'll say he's bored and will leave, causing you to have to start the fight again with a new pot. If the chatbox says Dessous has gotten bored and left when his health has been fully depleted, it means you have defeated him. Dying or leaving the fight earlier will require a new pot to be filled and used on the tomb. Dessous has two attacks: a melee attack that is rapid and accurate (3-tick speed, hits up to 19) , and a combination range and magic attack that always hits double 5's (totaling to 10) . Because of this, it's strongly recommended to use protect from melee , reducing his max hit to 10 at any given time. Never let your health drop below 16 , as his double 5's will sometimes lag, stacking up to 15 altogether. He cannot be safespotted through the fence, but it can be used to effectively flinch him. The silver pot is correctly prepared if the Magic and Ranged combo attack only hits a maximum of two 5's and he switches between that attack and melee. If you know how to "1-tick flick" your prayers, you can avoid all damage by flicking between Protect from Melee and Protect from Missiles.

A Dwarf multicannon can be used to kill Dessous, although it will be fairly inaccurate against him. Be sure to set up the cannon before opening the coffin, and bring at least 75 cannonballs. Tick eating can be used to survive with low HP, but the double 5s make this difficult to do, so keeping HP above 10 is a must. For low HP pures, it's recommended to use foods that boost HP above your current level such as Guthix rests (requires One Small Favour ) and Saradomin brews . At 10 HP, a brew will boost your HP by 3; you can eat a slice of pineapple pizza and then drink a brew in the same tick, restoring/boosting your HP to 13 after every hit Dessous makes.

Once Dessous is dead, return to Malak in Canifis to claim the Blood diamond , and deposit it in the bank as quickly as possible to avoid being attacked by the Stranger. If you lose the diamond, reclaim it from Malak. You will not have to fight Dessous again.

Note: If the player wishes to keep the pot or other variants (including copies), the player should drop them before speaking with Malak or reclaiming a lost diamond from him.

Ice diamond [ edit | edit source ]

Kamil is the next boss and arguably the hardest boss of the quest. Due to the many factors that come into play during this fight, it's highly recommended to thoroughly read this section before continuing.

Protect from Melee is highly recommended otherwise the ice trolls and ice wolves on the way to Kamil will deal a lot of damage. The trolls are in single combat, while the wolves are in multicombat. It is recommended to restock and restore stats after each step because everything will be heavily drained. While not in combat, mainly right after entering the ice cave or hiding behind the boulder after passing the wolves, it's possible to stall the cold effect by activating a prayer that you don't have unlocked yet, and leaving the dialogue box open. This can be good for those who need to reread a section before proceeding.

Feeding the trolls [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to Trollheim , and then take the north-western path to the Troll child . If following the path from Burthorpe , you will need a pair of Climbing Boots as well as Spiked Boots . You will need to pass the thrower trolls ; Protect from Missiles will negate their damage entirely, otherwise food or another player to tank is required. Do not enter the path with a boulder in the way; that leads to the God Wars Dungeon . Go down the previous path, which leads to the Troll child and the entrance to the Ice Path . It should start to snow as you approach the gate (note that the stat-reducing effects only occur once you pass through the Ice Gate , making this a safe area to wait).

Upon talking to the Troll child, he'll cry, and won't speak to you. Use a cake or other sweet on him and then speak to him again to learn that his parents are frozen further up the path. Attempt to enter the Ice Gate, the Troll child will explain why it is frozen. Enter the Ice Gate once more to squeeze through it.

While on the Ice Path, your stats will be drained every few seconds, your run energy will instantly be reduced to 0, and you will take 1 damage every time the cold hits. All of your Special attack energy will be drained as well, so special attack boosts should be done before entering. Restore potions will recover drained stats, and Super restore potions will do the same, as well as restore Prayer points. Otherwise multiple trips can be taken by using a ring of dueling to teleport to Ferox Enclave and drink from one of the pools of refreshment to restore all stats.

Once past the Ice Gate, you have to kill five ice trolls , regardless of their level. However, it is worth noting that the ice trolls with higher levels have lower defensive stats in exchange for higher offensive stats, making them easier to kill if using Protect from Melee. They can hit up to 25 , so use Protect from Melee or safespot them with Ranged or Magic to be more safe. The dwarf multicannon works here, but can be inaccurate against the trolls, so be sure to bring several hundred cannonballs. They retreat when safespotted. The five trolls do not have to be killed in succession, you can leave and return without losing progress. After killing five trolls at the gate, the cave will have thawed open, allowing you to enter and proceed to Kamil.

If you forget how many trolls you've killed, you can check your progress by examining the cave or by counting the number of chatbox messages that are: "A chunk of ice falls away from the cave entrance..." , if you haven't logged out, as killing a troll causes that message to appear until you've killed five. It is recommended you go back to the bank and restock your supplies before returning.

Killing Kamil [ edit | edit source ]

Enter the cave and follow the Ice Path until you reach Kamil . This path contains multiple ice wolves capable of hitting 16s in multicombat, so protect from melee or a lot of food is a must. Another account can be used to tank damage as well. Continue walking and the path will open up and turn to the left, walk until you find a rock, marking the area where you will find Kamil. You'll get a message saying "You can feel an evil presence nearby..." when you enter the area.

Kamil uses two attacks, a strong melee attack capable of hitting up to 23, and a magic attack similar to Dessous' combination attack which always hits 5. Due to lag it's possible for these to stack to 10, so it's recommended to keep hp at 12 or above at all times. He also consistently freezes you with this attack by using a spell resembling Ice Barrage , especially if outside of melee range. When frozen, you're unable to move or attack for several seconds so you'll only have a few ticks (if any) to get off attacks before being frozen again. Hiding behind the rock does not work anymore, and neither does having another player block Kamil. You cannot cast from behind the rock, and Kamil will teleport if you have another player blocking. Protect from Melee is a highly recommended, otherwise you will deal very little damage due to constant eating. When using Magic , only fire spells can damage Kamil. Due to the temporary skill drain it is recommended to use a spell significantly below your base Magic level. Even though stats can be restored, it is much more reliable. Fire Bolt is a good option, along with chaos gauntlets and a tome of fire . Also note, Iban Blast will not work against Kamil as it is not a fire spell. Melee combat is not recommended. Ranged is not recommended, however a fast, strong weapon like the toxic blowpipe will be accurate against him.

A dwarf multicannon can also be used against Kamil, it should be set up two squares north of the rock, allowing them to safely hide from Kamil, but restock it when it runs out of cannonballs. Since the cannon's position will cause it to attack the wolves as well, be sure to bring enough (100+) cannonballs to kill him. Low hitpoints pures may find reaching the cave difficult, as there are dozens of trolls in the area, and it's single combat; one way around this is to enter a PvP world and remove your weapon and attack a friend, keeping them in combat with you and as such avoiding being attacked by the trolls. If using this method, do NOT eat until you've made it to the cave, as the delay from combat while eating will cause the trolls to attack you.

The parent trap [ edit | edit source ]

Once Kamil is defeated, you need to free the troll parents. Follow the path west, then north, then east as it loops around until you reach the edge of an ice ledge surrounded by ice formations. If you check the world map (or the map above), you can see the path you need to take.

Put on your spiked boots and Use the ice ledge to climb up. You will be on a long spiraling ice path which you must follow all the way up to reach the parents. You may slip and fall, taking some damage as you walk. Using super restores to restore your Agility level will help here. At the top, pass through the ice gate and walk along the path until you see two ice blocks containing the troll parents. Attack the ice blocks, which have 10 Hitpoints each. They can be smashed or attacked, however with low stats it may be difficult to deal damage accurately, so the super restore from Kamil should be used.

If you have 49 Prayer , Redemption can be used to heal with all of your remaining Prayer points to stay alive after running out of food as a last resort. It will sustain you if you have more prayer potions or super restores.

After freeing the troll parents, they will take you back outside the gate and give you the ice diamond . If lost, talk to the Troll child to receive another. Kamil will not have to be fought again.

The Ancient Pyramid [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Eblis at the six mirrors in the desert with all four diamonds in your inventory. Speak with him, then go to the Ancient Pyramid south-east of Eblis (marked "Jaldraocht Pyramid" on the world map). Place each diamond in its respective obelisk on the corners around the base of the pyramid (requires level 50 Magic ). Each obelisk's tip and centre have a colour related to the specific diamond that needs to be placed there. Diamonds will only fit in the correct obelisk and cannot be removed afterwards.

When all four obelisks are activated, the pyramid will no longer be blocked, and can be entered from the top.

Note: To keep duplicate diamonds after the quest, drop the duplicates before putting the last diamond into the pyramid's last unpowered obelisk. After this is done, the quest can be safely completed without the diamonds being automatically removed from one's inventory or bank.

Tomb raider [ edit | edit source ]

Desert heat is not a problem while inside the pyramid, but most of the interior is dangerous. Level 92 scarab swarms occasionally erupt out of the floor while level 103 mummies roam about and level 96 mummies spontaneously pop out of sarcophagi . All monsters use Melee only, though scarab swarms can poison .

Every time a scarab swarm appears or a mummy pops out of a sarcophagus, you will stop moving, and will not be able to move until the animation has finished. It is possible to avoid a scarab swarm entirely by making sure it is behind a mummy. There are also randomly activated traps that will send you back to the entrance of the pyramid. Bring weight-reducing clothing and plenty of super energy potions or stamina potions to maintain run energy or restore it quicker if it depletes. If you get caught by a trap, you will be taken outside to the south side of the pyramid but with no damage done. Do not click directly to the ladder; keep clicking to your goal as this will reduce the chances of getting caught by traps. It is useful to use a strange fruit while inside the pyramid due to the fact that it recovers 30% run energy and cures any kind of poison you may have gotten while inside the pyramid.

The levels in the pyramid are numbered in the order the player encounters them in the quest. The purple line marks the route.

Enter the pyramid from its top. The southern entrance leading to the altar can only be used after the quest has been completed.

Run from the entrance ladder to the Level 2 ladder. This level is the smallest in the area, with the fewest mummies.

This level is the second smallest in area, with a few more mummies roaming about. This room might have a few traps.

This level is fairly large in area, with a significant number of mummies. There is a vast amount of traps.

This level is quite large in area, with mummies roaming about everywhere except the altar room. The altar room is separated by a door—do not rely on the minimap to run outside.

Azzanadra [ edit | edit source ]

It is possible for a scarab swarm to spawn inside the altar room, but this only happens if it was spawning as you were entering the room. If this is the case, trap it between the door and an obstacle that is just in front of the door. Speak to Azzanadra , or spawn him by using the altar . He has lost track of time and believes that the God Wars are still going on. He goes on to talk about ancient unknown civilizations like Paddewwa , Lassar and Annakarl . He is also surprised to see that he cannot hear Zaros in his mind anymore.

After talking, Azzanadra finally comes to peace with reality, rewarding the adventurer with the Ancient Magicks of Zaros for their efforts.

Congratulations, quest complete!

At quest completion, you will be switched to the Ancient Magicks spellbook. Make sure you change back to the standard spellbook before you leave, if you prefer to be on it, by praying at the altar . You can return here at any time via the back entrance of the pyramid to swap between the two.

Note: Praying at the altar twice after completing the quest will complete a hard task in the Desert area . Do this before leaving the area.

Note: Teleport to Paddewwa to complete a Varrock hard diary task. This requires 2 Law Runes, 1 Air Rune, and 1 Fire rune.

Note: After exiting the pyramid, and at any point after the quest, you can speak with Eblis to obtain both an ancient staff (for 80,000 gp) and an endless supply of ancient signets (for free).

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 20,006.9 Magic experience [2] The ability to use Ancient Magicks : At any time, you can pray at the altar and change between the standard and Ancient Magicks spellbooks. After traversing the pyramid for the first time, you may enter via the back-door of the pyramid to gain a short cut to the altar. Be warned that changing spellbooks will drain your prayer to 0. Ring of visibility : If you ever lose it, you can obtain another one from Rasolo . Access to ancient staff : You can buy one from Eblis for 80,000 coins . If you lose the staff, you will have to reobtain it from another source. Access to the Smoke Dungeon , which can be used for various Slayer tasks . Ability to talk to Eblis to obtain an ancient signet .

Unlocks:

Dessous , Damis , Fareed , and Kamil accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Desert Treasure I is required for the following:

Recipe for Disaster – Defeating the Culinaromancer Curse of the Empty Lord (miniquest) -- only partial completion of Desert Treasure I required. Hopespear's Will (miniquest) The Frozen Door (miniquest) Hard tiers of the Desert Diary , Varrock Diary , and Morytania Diary Elite tiers of the Ardougne , Wilderness , Lumbridge and Desert Diary Desert Treasure II - The Fallen Empire

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

11 January 2023 ( update ) | The quest's name was changed from "Desert Treasure" to "Desert Treasure I".

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If a player talks to the Asgarnia Smith after the quest, he will tell a story very similar to Raiders of the Lost Ark . He is also another nod to the Indiana Jones films, using the name format [Area name] [Common Surname]. When talking to the ice trolls after reuniting them with their child, they use "he" to refer to you even if your account isn't set to he/him pronouns. According to Mod Ash and former Jagex developer Mod James, many of the assets involved in Desert Treasure I, such as Azzanadra 's unusual Anubis-like model were salvaged from a cancelled quest a terminated Jagex intern was working on. [3] [4] In an early draft of this cancelled quest, a boss was to be encountered in the Bandit Camp which had the ability to one-hit any player. [5] The name Eblis is derived from the Arabic word Iblīs "إبليس", which is the name of the major Satan (Devil, Shaitan or Setan) شيطان in Islam. You can be followed by another player's stranger even if you have not begun the quest, although the reasons for grabbing its attention are unknown.

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Desert Treasure I

NPCs | Asgarnia Smith Terry Balando Bartender Eblis Hadley Rasolo Laheeb Roavar Malak Ruantun High Priest Dunstan Troll child Troll mother Troll father Azzanadra Enemies Dessous Kamil Fareed Damis Ice troll Scarabs Mummy ( sarcophagus , ashes ) Stranger |  | Asgarnia Smith Terry Balando Bartender Eblis Hadley Rasolo Laheeb Roavar Malak Ruantun High Priest Dunstan Troll child Troll mother Troll father Azzanadra | Enemies | Dessous Kamil Fareed Damis Ice troll Scarabs Mummy ( sarcophagus , ashes ) Stranger

 | Asgarnia Smith Terry Balando Bartender Eblis Hadley Rasolo Laheeb Roavar Malak Ruantun High Priest Dunstan Troll child Troll mother Troll father Azzanadra

Enemies | Dessous Kamil Fareed Damis Ice troll Scarabs Mummy ( sarcophagus , ashes ) Stranger

Items | Etchings Translation Silver pot Blessed pot Garlic powder Bandit's brew Spiked boots Gilded cross Warm key Ring of visibility Ancient staff Diamonds of Azzanadra Blood Ice Smoke Shadow |  | Etchings Translation Silver pot Blessed pot Garlic powder Bandit's brew Spiked boots Gilded cross Warm key Ring of visibility Ancient staff | Diamonds of Azzanadra | Blood Ice Smoke Shadow

 | Etchings Translation Silver pot Blessed pot Garlic powder Bandit's brew Spiked boots Gilded cross Warm key Ring of visibility Ancient staff

Diamonds of Azzanadra | Blood Ice Smoke Shadow

Locations | Morytania Graveyard Ice Path Shadow Dungeon Smoke Dungeon Ancient Pyramid

Related | Quick guide Transcript