 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Dream Mentor (#125)





Released | 15 May 2007 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tim C



Dream Mentor is a Fremennik Quest taking place on Lunar Isle . It revolves around helping an adventurer conquer his fear of combat using oneiromancy.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to the fallen man in the small cave in the Lunar Isle mine . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Medium

Description | Gielinor is not the safest place to live - dragons, trolls, demons... dangerous and despicable monsters of all sorts roam free. In this quest, you must help a fellow adventurer that doesn't do so well against these threats. With perseverance and the magical help of the Moon Clan, there should be no monster that can't be beaten. But is that really true? How about the monsters in your dreams? How about your own inescapable fears? How would you defeat them? Well, you'll soon find out as a tough and often bizarre quest awaits those of a strong will!

Requirements | 85 Combat ( required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Lunar Diplomacy The Fremennik Trials Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Eadgar's Ruse Druidic Ritual Troll Stronghold Death Plateau The ability to defeat 4 powerful monsters without the use of prayer

Items required | A seal of passage 3 different kinds of food : 6 of 1 type and 7 of 2 others for a total of 20 pieces (Sacks of cabbages , potatoes , and onions can be used as they each contain 10 piece of their respective food and only require a total of 3 inventory slots. Fruit baskets also work.) Goutweed An astral rune A tinderbox A hammer A pestle and mortar A good weapon ( trident of the seas recommended because they have no magic defence) , good armour , good food such as sharks , and super potion sets .

Enemies to defeat | The Inadequacy (level 343) The Everlasting (level 223) The Untouchable (level 274) The Illusive (level 108)

Ironman concerns | Note : As opposed to the dream world in Lunar Diplomacy, the dream world in Dream Mentor is not safe and dying here is the same as dying in the rest of Gielinor: you will lose your hardcore status. The lectern is the only way to leave, as no other teleports will work (including the ring of life).

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Helping the fallen man [ edit | edit source ]

Travel to Lunar Isle . Changing spellbooks to the lunar set may help, as will carrying runes to teleport back to the bank.

Travel north-east from the bank and go down the mine —then, crawl through the passageway to reach the fallen man (located just south-east of where you entered the cave. The cave entrance will appear as a red line in the wall on your minimap ). You can talk to him and inspect him. The inspect option opens a status screen. Note: If you didn't bring enough food, you have to run back to the bank; to make it faster and safer, you should use level 69 Lunar Spell, Moonclan Teleport .

He will need you to increase three stat bars, in this order: health, spirit, and armament. To feed him, you should take three kinds of food—it doesn't matter what food; sharks aren't better than tomatoes . Take seven pieces of two kinds and six of the third. Cyrisus will reject any type food that he has eaten recently - either the last piece of food, or the one before that. Use the one piece of the two foods that you have seven of on Cyrisus to feed him, followed by the one that you have six of. Continue feeding him in this order until the chat box says he doesn't need any more food. If he refuses the food, you already fed it to him recently, so just give him a different kind of food. You will have to feed him four separate times, with dialogue in between. Note: You can use one type of food by logging out. Using sacks or baskets of farm produce is a good idea. Note: Make sure to take the food out of the sack before using it on him, using an entire sack only counts as one item. Note: He won't accept beverages other than wine and Guthix Rest. Increasing his spirit is done by talking to him, but just try to choose the most positive things. This part is long, but no dire consequences if you get it wrong. Make sure he's standing up and both his health and spirit are at least at 70 and 72% respectively before you leave the cave.

For armour, go to the bank on Lunar Isle and talk to the most right banker 'Birds-Eye' Jack . Tell him you want to access Cyrisus' bank account—from there, select a helmet, top, legs, boots, and weapon. It is guess and check whether or not you got it right. The easiest way to check is using the level 67 Lunar spell, NPC Contact , to ask Cyrisus whether you chose right. It may take several tries, but eventually, he will tell you your choice is just right—take that set to him in the cave. Note: The most common set (for players with combat level determined by melee skills) is a dragon med helm , Ahrim's robetop and robe skirt , ranger boots and an abyssal whip . Cyrisus ends up dressed like a melee fighter. For archers (players with ranged being the dominant combat skill), the combination is a splitbark helm , Karil's leathertop , Torag's platelegs , adamant boots and a magic shortbow . Cyrisus will look like an archer. For mages (players with magic being the dominant combat skill), the combination is a robin hood hat , dragon chainbody , black d'hide chaps , infinity boots and an ancient staff . Cyrisus will look like a mage.

Now, you have to reach 100% in all of his remaining stats. Once Cyrisus has reached 100% in all stats, he'll tell you that he's afraid of Combat . Afterwards, you'll agree to accompany him to the Oneiromancer —exit the mine, and go southward.

Making the potion [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Goutweed , a hammer , a pestle and mortar and an astral rune .

Head south to the Oneiromancer on the south-east part of the island near the Astral Altar . Talk to her, and Cyrisus will appear. The Oneiromancer will suggest going into Dreamland together to solve Cyrisus' fear of combat. Note: If you're using Magic for the upcoming fight and were on the Lunar Spellbook, don't forget to switch back to Standard Spellbook/Ancient Spellbook (your choice; Standard Spellbook is closer, done by praying to the Astral Altar ). The Oneiromancer will give you a dream vial . Fill this with water. The nearest water source is the house west of the bank. You need to obtain some goutweed , either by growing a gout tuber , or by stealing it from the troll kitchens from Eadgar's Ruse quest. (If you go back to the troll kitchen, it is recommended to grab two goutweed in total if you plan on doing Dragon Slayer II .) Use the goutweed with the vial. Use a hammer with an astral rune , and then, use a pestle and mortar on the result—add this to the potion to get a dream potion .

The battles [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Dream potion , a tinderbox , armour , a weapon , and good food , seal of passage .

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Using the lectern at the north of the arena is the only way to leave the following fight. Use of all teleports, including the ring of life and escape crystals , will not work. Players should prepare to use the right-click leave option during the fight. If you die you will always lose your seal of passage and will have to speak with Brundt to get a replacement.

In the upcoming fight, four bosses must be defeated in a row, without the use of prayers .

It is highly recommended to use magic for the fight. All four bosses have very low magic defence, and magic will hit consistently even if you wear melee gear to reduce incoming damage. An excellent strategy is to use a trident of the seas , but Iban Blast , Warped sceptre or Blood Rush are also very good options. Strong melee armour, a shield with high ranged defence, and plenty of high-healing food are recommended. A halberd can also be brought to safespot the second and third bosses if desired. Lower-levelled players may want to drink a dose of divine battlemage potion prior to entering.

Note: Remember to bring the seal of passage .

Go to the Dream Hall, the large building on the west side of Lunar Isle, where Cyrisus will be waiting for you. Light the brazier with a tinderbox , and talk to Cyrisus to enter the dream world. During the fight, a bar showing Cyrisus's Courage will be shown, and he will occasionally attack or use Vengeance Other on you.

You will then have to fight, in order, four monsters representing Cyrisus's fear:

The Inadequacy (level 343). This is by far the hardest part of the fight, so don't worry if you use most of your food on it. The Inadequacy will use powerful and accurate melee and ranged attacks, but will only use ranged if the player is outside of melee range. It will also summon Doubts , which should be ignored in favour of defeating the boss as quickly as possible. Magic will hit dependably even with a negative magic attack bonus. Use available special attacks, like from a dragon dagger to deal damage quickly. Make sure to keep your health above 30 and the boss will eventually go down. The Everlasting (level 223). Hits high, but can be easily safespotted by standing directly next to the lectern on the north side of the arena . Note that due to its size the player cannot walk through the Everlasting, so be careful not to get trapped between it and the side of the arena. After it is killed, the next boss may spawn in a position that allows it to attack a player in the safespot. To avoid this, run out during the Everlasting's death animation so the next boss spawns further away, or lure it away before killing it and return to the safespot on the other side of lectern. Finally, this boss can be kited (especially with a stamina potion). The Untouchable (level 274) . Similar to the Everlasting but with much lower health, and can also be safespotted with Magic or a halberd. This boss can also be kited. The Illusive (level 108) . Not much of a threat, though it will regularly burrow into the ground and reappear somewhere else, forcing the player to chase it around.

After defeating the Illusive, Cyrisus will finally conquer his fear and stomp it to death.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Note: Do not bank your seal of passage after the fight. You will need it to finish up the quest.

Travel back and talk to the Oneiromancer on the south-east of Lunar Isle . Cyrisus will thank you for helping him, and in gratitude uses Lunar Magic to grant you some of his knowledge.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 15,000 Hitpoints experience 10,000 Magic experience 7 new spells added to your Lunar spells book ( Monster Examine , Humidify , Hunter Kit , Stat Spy , Dream , Plank Make , Spellbook Swap ) A dreamy lamp , which awards 15,000 experience in a combat skill of a player's choosing, apart from Attack and Prayer . 'Birds-Eye' Jack will now allow you to use the bank without a seal of passage equipped or in your inventory.

Unlocks:

The Untouchable , The Everlasting , The Inadequacy accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Dream Mentor is required for the following:

Dragon Slayer II While Guthix Sleeps Hard Desert Diary Hard Kourend & Kebos Diary Elite Varrock Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

On the day of release, if you clicked to see the rewards of the quest, it said "Spoilers? On the day of release? Tell him he's dreaming!", an allusion to the Australian movie 'The Castle', instead of the usual message. Cyrisus explains that he can make rune platebodies , grow spirit trees , and make summer pies — a reference to a high level player in RuneScape . This also confirms that he has at least one mastered skill, as making rune platebodies requires 99 Smithing . Dream Mentor is the first quest with a combat level requirement. Earlier quests only have single skill level requirements. Cyrisus' bank has an approximate value of 53,089,138 coins . After the quest, you can contact Cyrisus via the NPC Contact lunar spell. He cycles between four tasks: Killing TzTok-Jad . Killing the Kalphite Queen , joined by some of the Slayer Masters . A top secret meeting between the rulers of Gielinor (a possible reference to Recipe for Disaster ). Player killing in the Wilderness . Both of the Lunar quests have had their official difficulty level increased shortly after release. Lunar Diplomacy was released as an intermediate quest, and was changed to an experienced quest. Dream Mentor was released as an experienced quest, and was changed to a master quest. Attempting to feed purple sweets to the Fallen Man is not possible, yielding a message saying: Sweets? You do know they rot your teeth? Player chat dialogue was changed from "What on Runescape is that?" to "What on Gielinor is that?"

v • t • e Dream Mentor

NPCs | Cyrisus 'Birds-Eye' Jack Oneiromancer Enemies The Inadequacy A Doubt The Everlasting The Untouchable The Illusive |  | Cyrisus 'Birds-Eye' Jack Oneiromancer | Enemies | The Inadequacy A Doubt The Everlasting The Untouchable The Illusive

 | Cyrisus 'Birds-Eye' Jack Oneiromancer

Enemies | The Inadequacy A Doubt The Everlasting The Untouchable The Illusive

Items | Cyrisus's chest Astral rune shards Ground astral rune Dream vial Dream potion Goutweed

Reward | Dreamy lamp

Locations | Lunar Isle Lunar Isle mine Dream World

Music | Down and Out On the Up Inadequacy Everlasting Untouchable Illusive

Related | Quick guide