 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Eadgar's Ruse (#60)





Released | 5 October 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Troll , #3

Lead developer(s) | Chris S



Eadgar's Ruse is a quest in the Troll series . It revolves around a certain item that needs to be obtained for the druids to continue their efforts to reclaim their stone circle .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Sanfew in upper floor of the building where Jatix's Herblore Shop is in Taverley . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | Sanfew requires a rare herb for the next part of the purifying ritual.
Travel back to the Troll Stronghold to find this herb that the trolls use as an ingredient for their favourite dish.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Druidic Ritual Troll Stronghold Death Plateau 31 Herblore ( boostable ) ( required to start )

Items required | Climbing boots (or 12 coins to buy from Tenzing) Vodka (sold by Heckel Funch at the Tree Gnome Stronghold bar for 5 coins) Pineapple chunks (pineapples are sold by Heckel Funch at the Tree Gnome Stronghold bar or any Charter Ship , use a knife to dice the pineapple into chunks) 1 Log (2-3 logs and a tinderbox may be helpful) 10 Grain (obtainable during the quest, just south of Tegid ) 5 Raw chicken (there are chickens on the way at Tenzing 's house. Undead chickens do not work) Pestle and mortar Ranarr potion (unf)

Recommended | 50 Combat level Armour and some food Energy / stamina potions and weight-reducing clothing Tinderbox 2 additional logs for fires Fast travel to the Ardougne Zoo ( Ardougne teleport or Ardougne cloak ) Fast travel to Taverley ( Games necklace , Taverley teleport , Teleport to House if your house is in Taverley, use the Balloon transport system , or alternatively a Falador teleport ) God Wars Dungeon route to Trollheim: Ghommal's hilt 1 or better Burthorpe route to Trollheim: Fast travel to Burthorpe ( Games Necklace or Combat Bracelet to Warriors' Guild) 44 Agility for shortcuts around the rockthrowing Trolls ( 47 Agility for more shortcuts to Eadgar) Fremennik route to Trollheim: Fast travel to Fremennik Slayer Dungeon ( Slayer Ring or Fairy Rings to A J R )

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | A grimy ranarr weed can be acquired by killing Chaos druids . (1/32.4)

League notes | Unlocking Asgarnia ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting off [ edit | edit source ]

Start the quest by speaking to Sanfew (if boosting Herblore , use before talking to him), who lives on the top floor of the herb shop in Taverley (ask general questions, then ask if he has any work for you option 1). He will ask you to find out the secret of the herb goutweed , in order to perform the next part of the purifying ritual on the Druid's circle . Only the trolls in the Troll Stronghold know about goutweed, so Sanfew will suggest you speak to his friend, Eadgar , who lives near there at the top of Trollheim .

It is safe practice to check the quest journal after each step to ensure you have completed each task. This may save you an extremely frustrating long walk or two.

The troll cook [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Food , armour and climbing boots .

Recommended: An Ardougne teletab , prayer potions or super restores , and one of a slayer Ring , a dramen staff , a Ghommal's hilt , a combat bracelet , or a games necklace .

Note: Failing the obstacles, though uncommon, deals 1-5 damage, depending on your current HP.

Make your way to Trollheim using any of the routes below.

The fastest and safest method to get to Trollheim is to teleport near the entrance of the God Wars Dungeon with one of Ghommal's hilts , rewarded from completing Combat Achievements . The hilt's 'Trollheim' option will place the player near the boulder / little crack , at which point they may run south to meet up with the thrower troll portion of the Burthorpe route.

If using a games necklace or a combat bracelet teleport to Burthorpe Games Room or the Warriors' Guild , respectively, and follow the mountain path out of the north-western corner of Burthorpe . Go south at the fork in the path to Tenzing 's house. If you don't already have climbing boots , buy some here from Tenzing for 12 coins . Wear the climbing boots, and climb over the stile in his back yard, following the path north. At the next junction, climb over the rocks, follow the path, and go west at the next fork climbing over rocks as required. Head north to the Secret Entrance that will place you on the lower level of the Troll Stronghold .

If using a Slayer ring or a Dramen staff , you must have climbing boots already as you won't be able to reach Tenzing from this path.

For the Slayer ring path, teleport to the Fremennik Slayer Dungeon or use the Fairy ring with (code A J R ) to teleport outside the Dungeon entrance. Head north-east to a narrow passage and climb over some rocks ( climbing boots required). Head north to the Secret Entrance that will place you on the lower level of the Troll Stronghold .

From the Secret Entrance, head north along the corridor, past the jail cells and sleeping guards to the stone staircase in the north-east corner. Head south and you'll see four Troll Cooks here – one of them will be called Burntmeat . Speak to him, and he will offer to tell you about goutweed in exchange for a human to cook in his stew.

Meeting Eadgar [ edit | edit source ]

Take the stairs next to Burntmeat and you will be on the upper level of the Stronghold. From here, follow the corridor north until you see the exit on the wall to the east, exit the Stronghold and run south-east to reach the base of Trollheim on the west side.

Climb to the top of Trollheim . At the top, there is an unmarked cave entrance on the southern side of the summit. Enter the cave, and speak to Eadgar about goutweed . He will suggest that you speak to the Troll Cook . Fortunately, you already have; unfortunately, you need a human to feed to the trolls. Eadgar will then come up with a plan...

The parrot [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Climbing boots , vodka , pineapple chunks , 10 grain , 2 logs , a tinderbox , 5 raw chickens , a pestle and mortar , Herblore boost (if not level 31), and a ranarr potion (unf) . 10 grain may be picked while obtaining robes from Tegid .

Recommended: A Slayer ring or a Dramen staff for the fastest access to the troll prison, a games necklace , or a combat bracelet if not. A Falador Teleport Tablet if you need to return to Taverley for the dirty clothes.

Eadgar will tell you he needs a parrot in order to fool the trolls into thinking you've given them a human. Go to the zoo in Ardougne , and talk to Parroty Pete at the northern part of the zoo near the wolf enclosure. Ask him both of the possible questions, and he will tell you that their favourite food is pineapple chunks and that they will get drunk if you feed them vodka . Do not accidentally drink the vodka or eat the pineapple chunks! Right click your pineapple chunks and use them on your vodka to make alco-chunks , and then use them on the aviary hatch on the west side of the parrot cage. You'll obtain a drunk parrot , and tell Parroty Pete that you will take it to the vet. (Do not drop the parrot or it will fly away. If this does happen, you can talk to Eadgar to retrieve it, However you cannot retrieve it if you have not visited him with the parrot yet.).

While in Ardougne, it's also a good idea to pick up your logs, tinderbox, grain, raw chicken, pestle and mortar, and unfinished ranarr potion from the bank.
Take the parrot to Eadgar. You need to make it look like a human, taste like a human, smell like a human, and talk like a human. (You must do these steps in order; however, you may hand in the items after hiding the parrot.)

Talk like a human - Go back to the Troll Stronghold , and head north through the corridor, then climb down the stone staircase, and unlock the prison door (no key required), finally climb down the second stone staircase to arrive at the prison cells. Go a bit further west and hide your parrot under the rack just north of the cells. Alternatively, use the fairy rings (code A J R ) or a slayer ring to teleport to the Fremennik Slayer Dungeon and follow the north-east passage to the climbable rocks, then open the secret door to the north and you will be directly south of the jail cells. Then, head north until you get to the stone staircase, and then, head west and hide the parrot under the rack north of the cells. You will come back for the parrot later. Make sure that you check your Quest Log and talk to Eadgar before teleporting away.

Look/Taste like a human - Teleport out of Trollheim and get your 10 grain, 2 logs, tinderbox, 5 raw chicken, pestle and mortar, and unfinished ranarr potion. Note for Ultimate Ironmen: You can make multiple trips with the items if you do not have the inventory space available to bring them in one trip. Smell like a human - Go to Taverley . You will see Tegid washing robes in the lake. Talk to him, and ask for a dirty robe . Then, threaten him with talking to Sanfew or chopping down trees to get one. After this, if needed, pick 10 grain just south of Tegid to bring to Eadgar . Take all items to Eadgar and he will make the human substitute for you. Consider doing the middle sections of the Troll Romance quest now to save time running back and forth.

Truth serum [ edit | edit source ]

Recommended: Combat gear and supplies for fighting Arrg if returning to complete the last part of Troll Romance quest simultaneously.

Note: If you boosted your Herblore lvl to start the quest a Herblore of 31 is needed to make the troll truth potion.

After you've done all of this, Eadgar will tell you that you need to make a troll truth potion so that Burntmeat won't lie to you about Goutweed . Look near the grass patches around Eadgar's hill until you find a tiny thistle growing in one of them and pick it for a Troll thistle . It may take you a while, but keep searching. If unable to find it, one may find it helpful to world hop and check the grass directly north or directly west of the cave. The Thistle's name is yellow when displayed at the top-left of the game window.

Once you've found the troll thistle, make a fire with your third log , and cook it to get a dried thistle . If you forgot a third log and/or tinderbox, there is a fire in the cave between the arena and Trollheim. Then, grind it with a pestle and mortar to make ground thistle . Finally, boost your Herblore level (if necessary) and add the ground thistle to your unfinished ranarr potion to make a troll potion . (If your character doesn't want to, check your quest journal!)

Talk to Eadgar again. He will take the potion off of you and tell you that the parrot has had enough by now, so you can get it back from the troll jail. At this point it's recommended that you bank and grab some food for the next part of the quest. Go back to the prison cells in the Troll Stronghold , either through the back door to the jail via Fairy rings , code A J R or with the Slayer ring teleport (bring climbing boots). If you chose not to bank, head back to the stronghold then north through the corridor, then climb down the stone staircase, and unlock the prison door, finally climb down the second stone staircase to arrive at the prison cells, search the rack to retrieve the parrot and then return to Eadgar.

Getting goutweed [ edit | edit source ]

After you give the parrot to Eadgar , he will give you the Fake man . Go back to the cooks in the stronghold by going south of the entrance and then down the stairs, and give the dummy to Burntmeat . He'll give you a piece of burnt meat as a reward (which you can discard as it serves no purpose in the quest). He'll also tell you that the Goutweed is kept in the storeroom and that you can find the key by searching the Kitchen Drawers.

Consider doing the first section of the Troll Romance quest if not already previously started.

Search the drawers in the south-eastern corner of the room, which look like rocks, and once you have the storeroom key , go down the stairs just to the north. This next part is the hardest as you will need to sneak past the guards. If one of them sees you, it will throw a rock at you, dealing 0-6 damage, and you will be sent back to the entrance.

The troll guards walk in cycles of 4, repeating. The easiest way to get a Goutweed is to click the crate with the Goutweed with run on as the two guards closest to the door are about to pass each other. Two of the 4 cycles should succeed using this method, and there is a 4 tile window where you can do this. If you get caught the cycle does not change like with Sorceress's Garden so  you can keep trying. If done correctly this should result in a Goutweed every 2 runs. If you prefer you can just click the crate and try to brute force it, players may expect to obtain somewhere in the vicinity of one Goutweed per 5-10 runs using this method. Since you will be running a lot and being thrown out a lot, it is recommended to keep Protect from Missiles on and to bring a few prayer-restoring and energy-restoring items.

If you wish to utilise the intended mechanics, the best way is to use the two most eastern guards as an indicator of when to move to the second safespot. To do this turn on your run and wait until one of the two guards rounds the northern corner of the boxes that they rotate around. As soon as this happens run to the second safespot. Note that the darker coloured troll patrolling the small section of boxes must also be avoided. Once in the second safespot simply run to the one of the safespots adjacent to the crate when the guard that comes north and closest to you turns west, and then click on the Goutweed crate.

The next way to do this is to use the safespots, which are dead ends surrounded by three crates. Time your movement and run to the first safespot, then wait for your chance to run to the second. You can use the position of the troll guards as an indication of when to move, as the placements of the guards will repeat after one or two cycles. Wait at the second safespot until you get the chance to run to the Goutweed crate and search it. Be careful not to simply click search Goutweed Crate as this will get you stuck on the sleeping troll instead of going up to the crate. Make sure you click on the spot adjacent to the crate, and then click search Goutweed crate. You'll be kicked out after you get one piece of Goutweed. Also, if you plan to do Dream Mentor or Dragon Slayer II at any point, it is recommended to get two extra Goutweed as it is a required item in those quests ( Note: You can grab multiple Goutweed if you are quick enough to skip the dialogue and click on the crate).

Give the Goutweed to Sanfew back in Taverley by clicking on the "ask other question" option NOT the "talk about sanfew serum". This will complete the quest.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 11,000 Herblore experience The ability to grow and steal Goutweed , which can be traded with Sanfew for herbs. 1 Burnt Meat The ability to use the Trollheim Teleport spell. The ability to use a Scroll of redirection to redirect a Teleport to house tablet to Trollheim.

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Eadgar's Ruse is required for the following:

Dream Mentor My Arm's Big Adventure Hard Fremennik Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Eadgar's Ruse

NPCs | Sanfew Eadgar Burntmeat Parroty Pete Tegid Parrots

Items | Goutweed Alco-chunks Drunk parrot Dirty robe Troll thistle Dried thistle Ground thistle Troll potion Fake man Storeroom key

Related | Quick guide Transcript