 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Elemental Workshop II (#112)





Released | 2 October 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Elemental Workshop , #2

Lead developer(s) | Dylan C



The Elemental Workshop II is the second quest in the Elemental Workshop series. You discover more about the mysterious workshop as you solve puzzles to create a mind helmet and mind shield .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Search the bookcases in the Exam Centre 's library and read the beaten book Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Among the ancient scrolls and papers held at the Dig Site's Examination Centre, scholars have discovered more references to the mysterious elemental ore. Recently they have uncovered a beaten book detailing long-lost uses for this odd material.
Can you decrypt the code that will lead you to the deeper depths of the Elemental Workshop? Can you get your head around fixing the mind-bending machinery, or will you fry your brain in the attempt?

Requirements | 20 Magic ( boostable ) 30 Smithing ( boostable ) Completion of Elemental Workshop I

Items required | Pickaxe (if obtaining elemental ore during quest) Hammer 2 Elemental metals (3 elemental metals if you wish to smith the Mind shield ), or: 2 Elemental ore (obtainable during quest) (3 if you wish to smith the mind shield) 8 Coal (12 if you wish to smith the mind shield) The battered key from Elemental Workshop I

Recommended | 15 Combat level Fast travel to the Exam Centre ( Digsite teleport or Digsite pendant or Senntisten teleport ) Fast travel to Seers' Village ( Camelot Teleport or Combat Bracelet to the Ranging Guild) Restore potion or Magic potion to recover Magic levels if your Magic level is below 40 and you wish to smith the Mind shield The slashed book if you wish to smith the Mind shield

Enemies to defeat | (If you do not have the elemental metal bars) 2 Earth elementals (level 35)

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting off [ edit | edit source ]

To begin, you need to go to the Exam Centre south of the Digsite . Search the North Facing bookcase on the east wall (South of the two chests. Not the one directly beside them however) of the south-eastern bookcases, and you'll find a beaten book with a scroll in it as a bookmark. Read the book and then the scroll, and then head to Seers' Village . Do not get rid of this book before the end of the quest; if you do, you will not be able to make the helmet out of the primed mind bar .

The key [ edit | edit source ]

If you don't already have the battered key , head to the building south-west of Seers' Village Bank , and search the north-east bookcase to get a slashed book and a battered key. Go to the workshop in the building with the anvil , and let yourself in the same way as in the Elemental Workshop I quest .

Next, go into the northern water elemental room and search the machinery to the south-west side of the room. You will receive the key used to unlock the hatch in the main room.

Making repairs [ edit | edit source ]

Go to the middle of the room and use the key on the locked hatch. Once you're downstairs, you need to fix the machinery. First, go to the " Schematic crate " (directly beside an old lever ) to the south and take both the crane and the lever schematics . Then go back upstairs and use one of your bars on the workbench and make the crane claw . Do not make a helmet yet!

Make sure you only make one, as the default will be make all!

Now, go back down and pull the south-western lever right next to the old crane , and then use the claw on the crane.

Next, head up the small stairs to your west (not up the hatch, but onto the metal construct) to get to the upper level. Open the junction box in the west to work on the pipes for the press (click on the ends you want to connect). You'll want to arrange them as seen on the left.

Explanation of the solution: The correct solution is worked out from the clue given by the lever schematic as well as by seeing how the 6 pipes are connected to the back of the junction box. These correspond to the pipe ends in the interface. The lever schematic shows that the middle pipe coming from the lever, top-right in the interface, allows water to flow towards the lever and must therefore be connected to the large water supply pipe, top-middle in the interface. Next, the 2 remaining pipes coming from the lever, bottom-right and bottom-middle in the interface, must be connected to the 2 pipes coming from the press, top-left and bottom-left in the interface. The only combination that works is bottom-right to top-left and bottom-middle to bottom-left.

For the next two parts, you'll need to search some crates in the bottom and upstairs area. The small cog , medium cog , large cog and piece of pipe are located randomly in crates for each player. However, only certain crates contain items: on the bottom floor try searching the double-stacked crates next to the large exit staircase, the single crate north-west by the stairwell down, the double-stacked crate east of the west water valve, the double-stacked crates south-east, and the crate next to the schematics crate. Upstairs try searching the double-stacked crate south-east above the old crane and the double-stacked crate directly north-west of the junction box . If searching a crate does not yield an "It's empty." message or produce an item, it is not possible to find an item within. Once you have found all 3 cogs and the piece of pipe , you can stop searching the crates. If you lose one of the items before using it you can retrieve it in the same crate it was found previously.

Use the pipe on the broken pipe upstairs on the northernmost point of the scaffolding. Then for the cogs, take them back down the steps to the wind tunnel on the east side of the track. On the side of the wind tunnel are three pins (under 2 yellow directional arrows ). By using the cogs on the machine pins, you want to stick the small one on the upper-left pin, the medium one on the lower left, and the large one on the right.

Operating the machine [ edit | edit source ]

Do this twice if you want the shield .

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Go down one more level to where there are two doors, one with the mind symbol and the other with the body symbol. Go into the mind room (nearest), and place your bar on the extractor gun and operate the extractor hat next to it. A part of you will be drained into the bar turning it into a primed mind bar . This will temporarily lower your Magic level by 20.

NOTE: You can power multiple bars while here (to make shield at same time upon returning 2 levels up) but each time will drain your Magic by 20 (ie. 2 bars in a row will be -40 Magic).

Now, you simply need to pick up the bar from the extractor gun, and go back up to the workshop, and make a mind helmet out of the bar you just made, and the quest is complete. MAKE SURE YOU HAVE THE BEATEN BOOK IN YOUR INVENTORY OR YOU WILL MAKE A MIND SHIELD.

At this point you will also be able to make a Mind shield , but this will not complete the quest, only making a Mind helmet will do so.

NOTE: You need the slashed book in your inventory to make a mind shield. Using a bar on the anvil without it will make a second mind helmet. Note: Both the mind shield and helmet can be sold on the grand exchange for 48,569 and 1,643 respectively.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 7,500 Smithing experience 7,500 Crafting experience The ability to make and use elemental mind equipment To make a mind shield : have the slashed book from the Elemental Workshop I quest in your inventory, then smith a primed mind bar into a mind shield

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Elemental Workshop II is required for the following:

Medium Kandarin Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

When you are downstairs in the corridor that has the mind door, a body door can be seen further down. This is a hint towards the Elemental Workshop III quest, which was released in Runescape in 2010. The armour reward from it was the Body body .

v • t • e Elemental Workshop II

NPCs | Earth elemental Fire elemental Jig cart

Items | Beaten book Scroll Crane schematic Lever schematic Key Pipe Large cog Medium cog Small cog Crane claw Primed bar Primed mind bar Elemental helmet Mind helmet Mind shield

Locations and scenery | Elemental Workshop Extractor ( Extractor hat , Extractor gun ) Workbench Lever Mine cart sign Schematic crate Old crane Stairwell Steam press ( Junction box ) Water tank ( Water valve , Corkscrew lever ) Wind tunnel ( Cog , Tunnel wall , Fan blade )

Music | Prime Time

Related | Quick guide Elemental Workshop I