 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Elemental Workshop I (#53)





Released | 2 June 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Elemental Workshop , #1

Lead developer(s) | Dylan C



Elemental Workshop I is a quest in which you find a mysterious book in Seers' Village , guiding along the rediscovery of the eponymous workshop and the lost magical elemental ore .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Seers' Village , the house south-west of the bank. Search the bookcase there. Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Very Short

Description | Hundreds of years ago, a mineral was found that had the ability to change the property of Magic.
The magicians, fearing the effect this may have on their profession, sealed this Workshop forever; or so they had hoped. See if you can rediscover the lost knowledge of elemental ore.

Requirements | 20 Mining ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) [t 1] 20 Smithing ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 20 Crafting ( boostable ) ( not required to start )

Items required | Knife (obtainable during the quest) or a slash weapon (e.g. dagger or scimitar ) Pickaxe Needle (obtainable during the quest, Costume needle does not work ) Thread Leather (obtainable during the quest) Hammer 4 coal (4 more for each additional bar you would like to produce)

Recommended | 15 Combat level Camelot teleport Combat equipment for lower levels

Enemies to defeat | Earth elemental (level 35)

Ironman concerns | 30 Mining ( boostable ) (if mining the coal)

League notes | Auto-completed with starting region Misthalin ✓

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Bound under lock and key [ edit | edit source ]

Head to Seers' Village and into the house immediately south-west of the bank, indicated by the quest start icon. Search the bookcase on the east wall to receive a book called "Battered Book", read it to start the quest.

The book speaks about an ore that was discovered in the Fifth Age , able to concentrate elemental energy into itself. Following this revelation, a workshop was created in Seers' Village, calling all craftsmen to invent new devices using this unique ore. Unfortunately, realising the destructive potential of the ore, the workshop had to be closed down, along with details of any processes involved destroyed.

After reading the book, use a bladed weapon like a scimitar, dagger or knife on it to get a battered key , turning the tome into a slashed book . There is a knife spawn in the house north of the church if you forgot to bring one. Do not drop the slashed book. Enter the north building with the anvil icon, and use the key on the odd-looking wall with the strange crack. Climb down the stairs you find there to enter a workshop .

Restarting [ edit | edit source ]

First, head into the northern chamber. There are two water controls to the east and west of the water wheel .

Turn the Eastern water control first to display green Turn the Western water control so that it also displays green. Then pull the lever near the water wheel. The water wheel now starts spinning.

If you do not already have leather and a needle: The leather can be found in a crate in the north-western part of the central room, while the needle may be found in a stacked crate in the western room.

Next, head into the eastern chamber. Fix the bellows with a spool of thread and leather, then pull the lever next to it. The bellows should now start pumping air.

Head into the western cavern and attempt to mine an elemental rock. The rock springs to life, yells, and attacks you. Kill the earth elemental , and pick up the elemental ore that it drops.

Note: Earth elementals only drop ores when awoken by an attempt to mine them.

Tip: Kill two more if you want to save time for Elemental Workshop II , or three more if you also want a Mind shield after completing that quest.

Note: One of the Kandarin easy tasks is to kill one of each elemental (must kill a regular Earth elemental, not the ones that can be mined first) but it is entirely optional for this quest,

Finally, head back to the central chamber. Search the boxes north-east of the hatch to obtain a stone bowl . Fill it with lava from the lava trough in the southern chamber, then use it on the furnace to the east in the same chamber. The inside of the furnace should now glow orange. This furnace cannot be used as a regular furnace - it can only be used to smelt elemental bars.

A lost art [ edit | edit source ]

Proceed to use the elemental ore, along with four coal , on the furnace to obtain an elemental metal . If you receive the message " The furnace needs to be hotter in order to be of any use,"

return to the northern and eastern rooms to ensure that the water wheel is spinning and the bellow is moving.

Players who receive the message "The furnace is too hot and would ruin this metal" should use the elemental ore on the furnace, not the coal.

With the slashed book in your inventory, go back to the centre and use the elemental metal on the workbench to make an elemental shield . If you are unable to craft the shield, destroy the slashed book and obtain a new one from the bookcase.

Note: You may make as many shields as you want so long as you return with the battered key, slashed book and 4 coal to smelt with the elemental ore. The elemental shield CAN be sold on the grand exchange for 1,403 gold.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 5,000 Crafting experience 5,000 Smithing experience Access to the Elemental Workshop An elemental shield , as well as the ability to make and wield them

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Elemental Workshop I is required for the following:

Elemental Workshop II (Quick guide) An easy and medium task in the Kandarin Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

15 October 2015 ( update ) | Added the apostrophe to Seers' Village in the Elemental Workshop quest journal.

2 October 2006 ( update ) | The quest was renamed from "Elemental Workshop" to "Elemental Workshop I".

v • t • e Elemental Workshop I

NPCs | Earth elemental Air elemental Fire elemental Water elemental

Items | Battered book Slashed book Battered key Elemental ore A stone bowl A stone bowl (full) Elemental metal Elemental shield

Locations and scenery | Elemental Workshop Odd looking wall Water controls Water wheel Bellows Lava trough Furnace Workbench Levers

Music | Twilight

Related | Quick guide Transcript Elemental Workshop II