 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Enakhra's Lament (#97)





Released | 23 January 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Mahjarrat , #4

Lead developer(s) | Isobel H



Enakhra's Lament is a quest which takes place in an old temple beneath the Kharidian Desert . It is the first quest to feature the Mahjarrat Akthanakos and Enakhra .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Lazim just north-east of the Desert Quarry . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Lazim the sculptor has a sad tale to tell - his days of making art are over, and now all he can do is carp at adventurers as they make a statue for him in the desert. Although, isn't just south of the Bandit Camp an odd place to be putting up a statue?
Help Lazim out with his artistic endeavours, and learn more as this quest goes deeper into the history of RuneScape than you might expect...

Requirements | 50 Crafting ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) 45 Firemaking ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 43 Prayer ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) 39 Magic ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) Must be on the standard spellbook

Items required | Chisel One of the following: bread , any kind of pie , any kind of cake , any kind of pizza , or a baked potato with topping (partial pies, cakes and pizzas do not work, and neither will burnt versions) Tinderbox Candle (a black candle will not work) Logs Oak logs Willow logs Maple logs Pickaxe (unless you already have the required items) Soft clay (obtainable during quest if you bring a pickaxe and bucket or jug of water) Coal (obtainable during quest with level 30 Mining ( boostable ) ) 52 kg of sandstone (obtainable during quest with level 35 Mining ( boostable ) ) Two 5 kg pieces of granite (obtainable during quest with level 45 Mining ( boostable ) ) Runes to cast Fire Bolt , Fire Blast or Fire Wave Runes to cast Wind Bolt , Wind Blast or Wind Wave Runes to cast Crumble Undead (multiple casts recommended in case of splashing) Enough remaining Prayer points to cast Protect from Melee for about five seconds

Recommended | 25 Combat level Take the free ferry south-west of Al Kharid to the Ruins of Unkah for easy access to the quest starting point (requires one shantay pass ) -- alternatively, travel with a Pharaoh's Sceptre to Jaldraocht One more soft clay if you would like your own camel mask (note that you can still make one after the quest has been completed) Desert equipment ( desert robes and waterskins or Circlet of water ) Stamina or energy potions .

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | 45 Mining ( boostable ) to mine granite

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

A sculptor in the sands [ edit | edit source ]

You can start this quest by speaking with Lazim , who is located just south of the Bandit Camp and west of the Ancient Pyramid . The simplest way of getting there is to travel with the free ferry south-west of Al Kharid to the Ruins of Unkah, and to run north from there. Alternatively, if you have a Pharaoh's Sceptre you can teleport to Jaldraocht (the Ancient Pyramid) and run west. Have at least four free inventory spaces at the start of the quest. You need to buy a Shantay Pass (5 coins) from the guard to exit the Ruins of Ankah and may need more if you come back to buy water from him.

Lazim introduces himself as a down-on-his-luck sculptor who once made statues for royalty but has been unable to hold a chisel since an unspecified accident. He wants your help building a statue to decorate the desolate area. Agree to help him. He will ask you to gather 32 kilograms' worth of sandstone from the nearby quarry .

There are four sizes of sandstone: 1 kg, 2 kg, 5 kg, and 10 kg. You can use your chisel on big blocks to make them smaller, if necessary. At a higher Mining level, you'll get bigger blocks. Speak to Lazim and tell him you have the sandstone once you have finished. You will have to give the pieces to him one by one, eliciting some caustic remarks.

Shaky foundations [ edit | edit source ]

After you've given Lazim exactly 32 kg, he will attach them with magic to make a 32kg sandstone block . Use your chisel on the block that he gives you to make a sandstone base . Talk to him again, and then use it on the flat ground next to him.

You now need 20 kilograms of sandstone for the body. After you've given him the required amount and he gives you the 20kg sandstone block , use your chisel on it to make a sandstone body and then attach it to the base. Lazim will grow increasingly angrier with your performance. He seems to be still missing something and tells you to chisel the statue a bit more. Talk to him again; he seems impatient, expecting something to have happened. He decides the statue is only missing a head, to be made out of granite from the same quarry. He lets you decide whose head the statue should bear. (If you want, you can tell him about the events of The Giant Dwarf if you have completed that quest; he will not allow you to use the head of your chosen company director because you no longer remember how it looks.)

You now have to choose the head of the statue. You may choose between either your own head (which he will not allow either), Lazim's head, a camel's head or a god's head, with the choice of Zamorak or Icthlarin . Mine a  5 kg piece of granite (not sandstone!). Chisel it into a head (if you sculpt the wrong head, Lazim will insult you but allow you to change your choice at the cost of the granite) and keep the other in your inventory for later in the quest. In order to save time later, mine a second 5kg piece of granite and some clay as well. There is a general store at the Bandit Camp where you can buy a bucket of water to use on the clay to make it soft (The empty buckets can be given to Drew ). Also mine a piece of coal if you don't have one already, as you will need it later.

Note: Mining granite is a Hard Desert Diary task .

Use the head on the statue. It will fall through the ground, creating a large hole. As you peer into it, Lazim pushes you inside. You hurt your duodenum and appear in an ancient temple below next to the sculptor and broken statue. Talk to Lazim, who says everything has gone according to plan. You deduce that he is not in fact a sculptor but promises you a share of whatever treasure you find in the temple if you help him. He explains you have fallen to the bottom floor and need to make your way to the top one. The doors in the temple do not require keys but stone limbs instead; he suggests you mine or chisel them off the statue.

The Camel, the Witch and the Prison [ edit | edit source ]

Use your chisel or pickaxe on the statue to get a stone left arm , stone right arm , stone left leg and stone right leg , which you'll use as keys to unlock the doors to the rooms. Lazim also returns the stone head to you, which had fallen off the statue. Should you need to exit the temple, the ladder next to the statue's remains leads to a pile of sand you can climb to the surface. This will unlock this entrance permanently.

Go around the outside track to each of the rooms through the doors, as the door in the western corridor is locked. Each door requires one of the limbs. Opening a door will give you a headache and trigger a cutscene. You should travel anticlockwise for the cut scenes to be in the correct order and collect the sigils from the pedestals as you go. The first shows a mysterious woman called Enakhra cheering at the completion of the temple for her lord. The second, four Knights of Avarrocka come to destroy the sorceress and her temple, only to be slain effortlessly by Enakhra's magic. One knight is left alive, frozen in ice. In the third cutscene, a camel-headed man named Akthanakos apparently convinces Enakhra to defect from Zamorak, for whom the temple is but who would rather have a weapon, to 'their side'. She pretends to agree, upon which the man leaves. In the next cutscene, she is shown animating bones to a weak skeleton in an attempt to create a weapon for Zamorak and is not satisfied.

As you pass the bigger rooms along the way, take the Z sigil , R sigil and K sigil , which together with the M sigil in the room in which you started make up the consonants of 'Zamorak'. You may also want to climb the ladders and sandpiles to unlock all four secret entrances. After you've unlocked all of the outer doors with the four limbs, go towards the middle and use the sigil to unlock the door. You may also unlock the other three doors. (This will permanently remove the sigils.)

Go up the ladder. A magic barrier is blocking your progress and there is a curious pedestal next to the ladder. Go back to Lazim and ask him about it. He asks whether there is a recess in it, which you confirm. He suggests placing the statue head into it. Try doing so; it will fit, but not perfectly. If you return to Lazim for advice, he says you should make a mould of the recess somehow and use that as a template to make another head from granite. If you did not bring soft clay, regular clay can be mined in the quarry. Take the ladder next to Lazim up and climb up the sand pile to resurface. There is a general store to the north where you can purchase a bucket, bowl or jug with water and use it on the clay to make soft clay. When you return, climb down the secret entrance a few tiles east of the hole you fell down to get back into the temple.

Use soft clay on the pedestal to make a positive camel head mould and then use the chisel on a piece of medium-sized granite (5 kg) to make a new stone head . Place this granite camel head into the pedestal to be greeted by another cutscene. It shows Akthanakos standing by the pedestal, confused. Enakhra reveals her betrayal and freezes him, expressing her loyalty to Zamorak.

Optional: Use a second soft clay on the granite head on the pedestal to make a camel mask for yourself, but only after you've crafted and placed in the new stone head.

Enakhra completes the temple. The Avarrockians attempt to kill Enakhra... ...but are vanquished. Akthanakos attempts to convert her to his side. Enakhra's love for Zamorak is endless and she attempts to create weapons for him. Enakhra tricks Akthanakos that she's changed... ...and freezes him when he is distracted.

The four elements of Enakhra [ edit | edit source ]

Lazim will appear next to you after the cutscene, complimenting you on opening the doors. He explains the magic barrier will not let you through but it may open if you solve each of the four puzzles in the surrounding rooms. You will know you have succeeded because the corresponding globes on the pedestal will be lit. You may wish to start with the blood room, as it will unlock advice about the other ones.

Take the north-east corridor and examine the furnace . Its grate is blocked and requires a strong blast of air to clear. Use a wind spell , bolt or stronger, on the furnace to clear out the room.

Take the south-east corridor and investigate each brazier to see what kind of fire used to burn there. The items are: logs , oak logs , willow logs , maple logs , a candle , and coal . All items except for coal can be gathered in the vicinity of Catherby and the Seers' Village , whilst coal is mined in the desert quarry. (If you have lit the candle previously, the room prevents you from extinguishing it. Exit to the main corridor to extinguish it.)

Warning : Standing too long in this room without lighting any braziers will do damage due to darkness !

Take the north-west corridor and talk to the old knight Pentyn , frozen by a magical spell. He believes you are a shapeshifting Mahjarrat there to torture him again. He explains he is a Knight of Avarrocka and has been frozen, wounded and hungry for many years. Give him your bread , pie , cake , pizza or baked potato with topping. Make sure to right-click and use it on him, rather than left-click to eat. He will reminisce about his daughter, who had been learning to cook the given food, and thanks you for the memory. He'll still be stuck, but will no longer be in hunger.

He will also offer advice on the other rooms. The frozen fountain did not yield to fire nor swords and is likely magical in nature. The furnace produces choking fumes and requires a good breeze to clear. The fires in the dark room will have gone out since he last saw them and require relighting.

Take the south-west corridor to find a frozen fountain that will require more than a regular fire to thaw. Cast your Fire Bolt , Blast or Wave on the frozen fountain to thaw it.

Clearing the furnace grate. Lighting the braziers. Melting the fountain.

A meeting of rivals [ edit | edit source ]

After all four globes are lit, speak to Lazim again, who will warn you of traps beyond the barrier, such as giant skeletons that will rend your limbs from your body. Go north through the barrier and up the ladder. You will indeed encounter a Boneguard south of the ladder. Talk to it. It warns you that you will not pass it unless it 'crumbles to dust' and attack  if you don't run away in time. Cast Crumble Undead on it. Your spell must hit the guard. The boneguard collapses and a freed spirit thanks you. It asks you to please bury the five big bones it has left behind.

Pass the boneguard's remains and climb down the ladder. You'll see another boneguard. If you want, you may also climb down the ladder from the other side, where Enakhra herself is standing. She angrily tells you not to interrupt her concentration and fires two spells at the Boneguard opposite her to prevent him from escaping before Zamorak can collect it, his weapon. Speak to the Boneguard . It will attack you once, stating that someone so easy to hit is not worth its time.

This time, turn on Protect from Melee and talk to it. It will try to attack you a couple of times — then, it will be impressed and ask for your help. It will tell you that it was put under Enakhra 's control millennia ago and that she had tricked him into this state of slavery. When her concentration wavered, the Boneguard managed to construct part of a wall to obscure Enakhra's line of sight, but her spells have strengthened lately. Agree to help the Boneguard by finishing the wall so that it can be free. It promises you its amulet as a reward in return. It tells you to take stones from the nearby pile of rubble, stack them on the unfinished wall, trimming them with a chisel so they fit and that it will require but three loads.

If you want, you may quiz him for more backstory on himself and Enakhra. He says the latter is a 'coward and a despicable traitor' who supported Zamorak when he became a god. She built him this temple as a gift, but he did not care and she has been hidden inside ever since. He himself was once a proud mage but has long been trapped in Boneguard form, forced to defend Enakhra's temple from intruders when he believed her lies about wanting to become allies and end their rivarly.

Take three pieces of sandstone from the pile of bricks , use the sandstone on the wall and then use your chisel on the wall to trim it. Once you've built the wall, Enakhra will be furious with you. Optionally, cross to the other side to talk to her. She will say the Boneguard, Akthanakos , is much harder to control now and that he supports someone whose name should not be mentioned. She also scolds you for dishonouring Zamorak's name.

Talk to the boneguard. It will thank you, crumble and reveal itself to be another Mahjarrat , the camel-headed Akthanakos . He is free from slavery after thousands of years and gives you his amulet in thanks. It allows you to understand camels and Ugthanki as well as containing teleports back to the temple. He then confronts his rival in a cutscene.

Enakhra blows up the wall and faces her nemesis. Akthanakos laughs and says Lord Zaros will be happy to aid him should, as Enakhra announces, Zamorak come to punish him for destroying his weapon. They transform into their skeleton forms and announce they will fight in the North before teleporting away.

The boneguard attacks you. Enakhra focussing her magic on her rival. Akthanakos reveals his allegiance. The Mahjarrat head to the North.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 7,000 Crafting experience 7,000 Mining experience 7,000 Firemaking experience 7,000 Magic experience Camulet , which allows you to talk to camels and teleport to the temple four times. It can be recharged by using camel dung on it. You can pay Lazim 1 million gold pieces to give it unlimited charges. Camel mask (Use a piece of soft clay on the pedestal with the globes on it to make.)

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Enakhra's Lament is required for the following:

Medium Desert Diary Desert Treasure II - The Fallen Empire

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

"Lazim" is probably from the Arabic word lāzim (لازم), meaning necessary or obligatory. The same word has been borrowed by Turkish ("lazım"), Persian (" lāzem ") and Urdu (" lāzim "). The 4 sigils have the 4 letters, M, R, K and Z, can be rearranged as Z, M, R and K, referring to Zamorak .

v • t • e Enakhra's Lament

NPCs | Lazim Knight Pentyn Boneguard Akthanakos Enakhra

Items | Stone head Stone head (Cavity) Camel mould (p) Sandstones 20kg 32kg Base Body Stone limbs Left arm Right arm Left leg Right leg Sigils Z M R K Rewards Camulet Camel mask |  | Stone head Stone head (Cavity) Camel mould (p) | Sandstones | 20kg 32kg Base Body | Stone limbs | Left arm Right arm Left leg Right leg | Sigils | Z M R K | Rewards | Camulet Camel mask

 | Stone head Stone head (Cavity) Camel mould (p)

Sandstones | 20kg 32kg Base Body

Stone limbs | Left arm Right arm Left leg Right leg

Sigils | Z M R K

Rewards | Camulet Camel mask

Scenery | Flat ground Headless statue ( Base , Rough , Complete ) Statue ( Camel , Lazim , Icthlarin , Zamorak ) Fallen statue Brazier Fountain Furnace

Music | Lament

Related | Enakhra's Temple Quick guide Transcript