 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Enlightened Journey (#114)





Released | 6 November 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Nancy J



Enlightened Journey is a quest in which you help the Entrana monk Auguste set up his novel Balloon transport system .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Auguste on the island of Entrana . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | On the peaceful island of Entrana, a lone monk has tired of his life of simplicity and quiet reflection. Auguste wants to boldly write his name in the history books; to craftily defeat the laws of physics; to miraculously sail through the air... preferably not to horribly explode into a ball of flaming death. Of course, to do all this, he'll need the help of a worldly adventurer: are you bold enough to merrily laugh in the face of the unknown?

Requirements | 20 Quest points 20 Firemaking ( boostable ) ( required to start ) 30 Farming ( boostable ) ( required to start ) 36 Crafting ( boostable ) ( required to start )

Items required | 3 unnoted papyrus 1 ball of wool A full sack of potatoes (item is called Potatoes(10) ) (there are potatoes growing in Entrana in the house east of Auguste, bring another empty sack if picking here) 8 empty sacks – bring 9 sacks if planning to fill one with potatoes on Entrana . 1 unlit candle or black candle (can be obtained during quest by stealing candles in Entrana church) Yellow dye Red dye 10 unnoted silk A bowl (obtainable during quest) At least 10 unnoted normal logs A tinderbox 12 unnoted willow branches (buy from the Grand Exchange , or plant a willow sapling and wait 4 hours.) Note: A willow seed is not required, nor is a basket of apples as payment (although planting one beforehand is faster); all players receive a willow sapling and a basket of apples to pay to protect the tree from Auguste during the quest. Secateurs (only if planting the tree) (can also be exchanged from a Tool Leprechaun if placed there before) A rake (only if planting the tree) (can also be exchanged from a Tool Leprechaun if placed there before) A spade (only if planting the tree) (can also be exchanged from a Tool Leprechaun if placed there before)

Recommended | Grouping teleport to Pest Control for easy access to a bank, and quick access to Port Sarim and Entrana (alternatively, Rat Pits teleport if Ratcatchers is completed) Ring of the Elements Air altar teleport. It teleports you between Rimmington and Port Sarim. A charged amulet of glory to teleport to Draynor Village , which is close to Port Sarim Ability to use Cabbage Teleport via Explorer's ring 2 or better for easy travel to Port Sarim

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | 30 Farming ( boostable ) required to grow a willow tree for the willow branch The player visits Entrana

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out and managing space [ edit | edit source ]

It is recommended to read ahead and bring the appropriate items to minimise the number of bank runs. Note that secateurs, rakes and spades can also be obtained from a Tool Leprechaun if placed there before, but as you'll be waiting several hours, it's not practical to bring the tools to the island with you.

The recommended run is:

Inventory one: papyrus (3), candle, ball of wool, sack of potatoes, red and yellow dyes, silk (10), empty sack (8), bowl (Obtainable from the house just east of Auguste, up the ladder) If planting the tree yourself, when given Auguste's sapling , leave with the basket of apples and plant it. Harvest the willow branches , and then return to Entrana with the following items.

Inventory two: willow branches (12), tinderbox, logs (10). Complete the balloon voyage and quest.

To start the quest, travel to Entrana and speak to Auguste , who is on the west side of the island, just north of the Herblore shop . Remember that weapons / armour are not allowed on the island.

Test balloons [ edit | edit source ]

Auguste wants to make two test balloons and asks the player to get him the following items:

3 papyrus - can be bought from the Tai Bwo Wannai or Shilo Village shops on Karamja , bought from the general store in Ardougne , bought from Ali Morrisane , or taken from respawns at the Legends' Guild , Yanille and Hosidius . A candle - buy from the candle seller in Tai Bwo Wannai, Shilo Village, or Catherby , or steal one from a table in Entrana's church, taking a maximum of 2 damage if unsuccessful. A ball of wool - spin from wool sheared from a sheep , or buy from Ardougne shop or the Lletya seamstress. A sack of potatoes - potatoes can be grown , bought in the shops on Miscellania and Etceteria , or gathered from the house east of the quest start (with the flowerbed). Sacks are available from any Farming shop . Click the sack with 10 potatoes in your inventory to fill up the sack. There is also a potato patch just east of Auguste. (NOTE: Auguste will not allow you to create origami balloons without first having the sack of potatoes).

Once you have the items, Auguste tells you to make a model of an origami balloon. Use papyrus with the ball of wool, creating a balloon structure, and then use an unlit candle on the balloon structure to get an origami balloon. Do not light the balloon or else you will have to get the items again!

Talk to Auguste to see a short cutscene of the balloon launch. After that, talk to him again, and he will take the remaining two pieces of papyrus and the sack of potatoes from you. In a second cutscene, the player launches the next balloon, which is attacked by an angry mob of peasants.

Main balloon [ edit | edit source ]

Next, Auguste asks the player to get the materials for a real balloon:

Yellow dye - can be obtained by giving Aggie in Draynor Village two onions and 5 coins or can be bought from Lletya seamstress shop. Red dye - can be obtained by giving Aggie three redberries and 5 coins or can be bought from Lletya seamstress shop. 10 silk - can be bought from the silk merchant in Al Kharid at 2-3 coins each, or stolen from the stalls in Ardougne . A bowl - can be bought at any general store or made in Barbarian Village from soft clay . There also exists a bowl upstairs in the building directly east of Auguste. 8 sandbags - Use an empty sack with a sand pit (use the one just south of Auguste) to get a sandbag. 12 willow branches

You can skip the following paragraph if you already have willow branches in your bank. After you bring these items (12 in total) to Auguste, he will need you to attach willow branches to the platform. Auguste will give the player a basket of apples and an " Auguste's sapling ", which is actually a willow sapling . Plant the sapling in any tree patch and ask the local farmer to look after the growing tree by paying with a basket of apples . Once it is fully grown, check its health, wait a half hour, then cut willow branches from it by using secateurs on the tree. You can only get 6 branches at once, so you'll need to wait another half hour to get all 12. To save time, you can buy the willow branches from the Grand Exchange .

Give the dyes, pieces of silk, bowl, and the sandbags to Auguste in the same trip. Teleport to a bank and take out the 12 willow branches, 10 normal logs, and tinderbox. (Note: You can travel to Pest Control via the ships for a quick bank) Head back to Auguste and use the 12 willow branches on the frame of the balloon to weave a basket.

Fuel [ edit | edit source ]

Ten normal logs (other log types will not work ) and a tinderbox are needed for completing the journey. Because axes can be wielded as a weapon, they are not allowed on Entrana . Logs should be prepared before going to Entrana.

Note: You can bring noted logs and store them nearby (up to 100). You CAN use logs from the log storage box for the quest and store them before finishing the quest.

Ballooning [ edit | edit source ]

After giving the materials to Auguste , weaving the basket and having the logs and tinderbox in the inventory , speak to Auguste to get ready to fly. He'll describe some of what the player should notice and some tips on how to fly the balloon.

An interface to control the balloon will appear. Manoeuvre through the obstacle course without hitting anything (including birds, trees, houses, and clouds) and safely land on the well-marked landing spot on the third screen.

Clicking any control advances the balloon one "space" to the right.

The top button (drop sandbag) moves the balloon two spaces up ( UP 2 ). The next button (use log) moves the balloon one space up ( UP 1 ). "Relax" advances the balloon to the right without changing altitude ( RIGHT ). The normal rope lowers the balloon by one space ( DOWN 1 ), The red rope lowers the balloon by two spaces ( DOWN 2 ). Clicking "Bail" will cancel the flight.

The numbers at the side of sack and log buttons correspond to how many times player can use the resources respectively; therefore, fuel is limited. If the player runs out of fuel, they can still "relax" or lower altitude (by pulling ropes).

A tip is that how the balloon appears to travel is not as important as where it will end up. If the balloon meets a cloud right above it and a bird in front of it, it is possible to go right through both obstacles by dropping sacks or pulling the red rope (raising and dropping the balloon by 2 spaces respectively). The balloon will fly high or low enough to avoid the bird, and will advance one space forward to avoid the cloud. It might not seem like the balloon can fit through, but it can .

Flying to Taverley [ edit | edit source ]

When ready to fly, three screens showing the path to Taverley will appear in the ballooning interface. Go here for more pictures.

The balloon should end up one space above the landing pad, with no air space in between . Flying past the landing pad would get the balloon blown away, and getting the balloon in the space with the landing pad would cause it to smash to the ground—in both cases, the flight would be considered unsuccessful. The player needs to restart the flight by preparing the logs and tinderbox again before going to Entrana , although they don't have to rebuild the balloon.

There are various ways to control the balloon, and the following is just one of the suggested paths:

Screen 1 | Screen 2 | Screen 3

 |  | 

Drop sandbag (x1) Burn log (x1) Relax (x9) Pull RED rope (x1) Relax (x2) Pull normal rope (x1) Relax (x5) | Burn log (x1) Relax (x1) Burn log (x1) Relax (x10) Burn log (x1) Relax (x5) | Relax (x7) Pull RED rope (x1) Pull normal rope (x1) Relax (x3) Burn log (x1) Relax (x4) Pull normal rope (x1)

After the balloon has landed, talk to Auguste for a little dialogue - then, the quest is finished.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 2,000 Crafting experience 3,000 Farming experience 1,500 Woodcutting experience 4,000 Firemaking experience The Bomber jacket and cap Gnome goggles from the Gnome Restaurant minigame can be combined with the bomber cap by talking with Auguste Access to the balloon transport system 4 new routes available to be flown, when successfully flown they provide an additional 2,000 Firemaking experience per route. Ability to make origami balloons

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Enlightened Journey is required for the following:

Monkey Madness II Ardougne Achievement Diary (Medium) Varrock Achievement Diary (Medium)

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Three of the four members of the angry mob are named Larry , Moe , and Curly , a reference to The Three Stooges . The mob destroying the balloon in the cutscene may be a reference to an event where angry peasants and farmers destroyed the balloon of Jacques Alexandre César Charles in 1783 when it landed. Balloonomania is a term used to describe the actions and interests of the public at the time that lighter than air flight was invented. The player states "Well, that went down like a lead balloon". This is a popular saying in the UK which is used when an idea or action goes wrong or is not received well. Auguste bears similarities to Jean-Luc Picard from Star Trek: The Next Generation . Auguste asks if you would like to be his "number one accomplice", a reference to what Picard calls his first officer William Riker: "Number One". The player also asks him if he is going to "boldly go where no man has gone before", a line from the intro of the show. Auguste almost mentions tribbles before correcting himself and saying "trouble". Tribbles are an alien race in the Star Trek universe and first appeared in the episode "The Trouble with Tribbles". The phrase, "[Player], it has been a privilege flying with you" is a reference to the 1995 film Apollo 13 . Completion of this quest will cause a penguin balloonist to spawn during and after the quest Cold War . However, said NPC will not appear if this quest has not been completed prior to the dialogue trigger that checks if the quest was completed and will not appear even if the quest is completed at a later point. The same happens with the quest Between a Rock...

v • t • e Enlightened Journey

NPCs | Auguste Assistants Assistant Brock Assistant Le Smith Assistant Lori Assistant Marrow Assistant Serf Assistant Stan Flash Mob Larry Moe Curly Bob |  | Auguste | Assistants | Assistant Brock Assistant Le Smith Assistant Lori Assistant Marrow Assistant Serf Assistant Stan | Flash Mob | Larry Moe Curly Bob

 | Auguste

Assistants | Assistant Brock Assistant Le Smith Assistant Lori Assistant Marrow Assistant Serf Assistant Stan

Flash Mob | Larry Moe Curly Bob

Items | Auguste's sapling Sandbag Balloon structure Origami balloons Origami balloon Yellow Blue Red Orange Green Purple Pink Black |  | Auguste's sapling Sandbag Balloon structure | Origami balloons | Origami balloon Yellow Blue Red Orange Green Purple Pink Black

 | Auguste's sapling Sandbag Balloon structure

Origami balloons | Origami balloon Yellow Blue Red Orange Green Purple Pink Black

Rewards | Bomber cap Bomber jacket Cap and goggles

Music | Floating Free

Related | Quick guide Balloon transport system Transcript