 | This miniquest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Enter the Abyss





Released | 13 June 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Order of Wizards , #2

Developer(s) | James B



Enter the Abyss is a miniquest during which the player helps the Zamorakians access the rune essence mines so that they can craft their own runes. Previously it had been a Saradominist secret, but the Mage of Zamorak asks for the player's help in learning it.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to the Mage of Zamorak at the end of the River Lum in the Wilderness (Roams levels 4-7). Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Very Short

Description | In the Abyss miniquest, the player helps the Zamorakians access the rune essence mines so that they can craft their own runes. Previously, it had been a Saradominist secret, but the Mage of Zamorak asks for the player's help in learning it.

Requirements | Completion of Rune Mysteries

Items required | None

Recommended | Varrock and Ardougne teleport runes and a method of teleportation to Edgeville (e.g. Amulet of glory ) would be helpful. Necklace of passage for easy teleport to Wizards' Tower .

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | Warning: Hardcore Ironmen should be extremely cautious as the miniquest is started by travelling to level 4-7 Wilderness , with a chance of getting killed by other players.

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the miniquest Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the miniquest Unlocking Wilderness ✓ will auto-complete the miniquest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting off [ edit | edit source ]

Note: If you are wearing any Saradomin or Guthix items, the mage will NOT speak with you. Therefore, it is best to unequip any and all god related items (with the exception of Zamorakian items) before starting a conversation with the mage of Zamorak. Simply putting the items in your inventory is enough, you don't need to bank them.

Follow the River Lum near Edgeville until you reach the Mage of Zamorak , or travel north over the Wilderness ditch ; he wanders around Level 4-7 Wilderness . Talk to him, and he will explain to you that it is too dangerous to talk in the Wilderness.

Talk to the mage back in Varrock at the Zamorak chaos temple (south-east of Aubury's Rune Shop ). Ask him where he gets his runes from when the question is available. He will tell you about the Abyss and that he is having problems. Say that you will help him.

Getting the readings [ edit | edit source ]

He will then give you a scrying orb . He will explain that you need to travel to the rune essence mine from three different locations with the orb in your inventory. This will give the scrying orb readings of where you travelled from and how you got there. Travel to the rune essence mines from three of the five locations. It is suggested you travel from Aubury in Varrock , Archmage Sedridor in the basement of the Wizards' Tower (south of Draynor Village ) and Wizard Cromperty in East Ardougne (north-east of the marketplace). One may also travel from Brimstail at his cave south-west of the Grand Tree or Wizard Distentor at the Wizards' Guild . When you are done, go back to the chaos temple in Varrock . Speak to the Zamorakian Mage , and you will complete the miniquest .

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

Ability to enter the Abyss 1,000 Runecraft experience An abyssal book A small pouch (able to carry 3 pure essence or rune essence )

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Enter the Abyss is required for the following:

Devious Minds Temple of the Eye Wanted! (partial completion) Wilderness Easy Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a miniquest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the miniquest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

23 March 2022 ( update ) | Dialogue pertaining to the miniquest was rewritten to flow better and be consistent with established lore. The scrying orb was given a "Destroy" option, so can no longer be dropped.

v • t • e Enter the Abyss

NPCs | Mage of Zamorak

Items | Scrying orb Abyssal book Small pouch

Music | Into the Abyss

Related | Abyss Transcript ( historical )

v • t • e Miniquests

 | Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl Architectural Alliance (removed) Barbarian Training Bear Your Soul Curse of the Empty Lord Daddy's Home The Enchanted Key Enter the Abyss Family Pest The Frozen Door The General's Shadow His Faithful Servants Hopespear's Will In Search of Knowledge Into the Tombs Lair of Tarn Razorlor Mage Arena I Mage Arena II Skippy and the Mogres

Unofficial miniquests | Tutorial Island Natural history quiz Restoring the Sacred Bone Burner Knight Waves Training Grounds Rogue Trader Obtaining the ancient key

v • t • e Zamorak Magical Institute

Members | Dark mage Hagus Mage of Zamorak Mage of Zamorak (Ourania) Zamorak crafter Zamorak mage Zamorak ranger Zamorak warrior

Related | Enter the Abyss Ourania Altar Ourania Cave