 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Fairytale II - Cure a Queen (#107)





Released | 11 July 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Fairytale , #2

Lead developer(s) | Greg V



Fairytale II - Cure a Queen is the third quest in the Fairy Tale quest series .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Martin the Master Gardener by the pig pen in Draynor Village . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | The Fairy Queen should be awake and back in charge of the Lost City by now, but what is happening in Zanaris? Why hasn't the Fairy Godfather abdicated the throne?
What is happening to all the fairy inhabitants and where has Fairy Nuff gone? Can you rise to the challenge of using the fairy rings to search the other planes and Cure a Queen, in the second part of the Fairy Tale trilogy?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Fairytale I - Growing Pains Lost City Nature Spirit The Restless Ghost Priest in Peril Note: The following skill levels are required to complete the quest. These skills are not required to unlock access to fairy rings , for which you only need to progress the quest up to a certain point . However, building fairy rings in the player-owned house requires full quest completion. 40 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) 49 Farming ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 57 Herblore ( boostable ) ( not required to start )

Items required | Dramen or Lunar staff Vial of water Pestle and mortar Nuff's certificate (obtained during quest)

Recommended | 55 Combat level Combat equipment and some food Restore potion Teleportation to any fairy ring (such as the Salve graveyard teleport , Ardougne cloak , or Slayer ring )

Enemies to defeat | Several Goraks (level 145) (can be safespotted , protection prayers are ineffective)

League notes | Unlocking Misthalin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Master Gardener [ edit | edit source ]

Note: Do not pickpocket Martin before you start the quest, or you won't be able to continue for 10 consecutive minutes of in-game time.

To start, talk to Martin the Master Gardener in the Draynor Market . He will tell you to come back once his crops are grown, so wait until your quest menu says his crops have had plenty of time to grow; this takes approximately five and a half minutes of logged in time.

Talk to him again. He informs you rather crossly that there is still something wrong with the crops, not believing your story about fairies and accusing you of creating this problem. Agree to investigate for him.

Surprise! [ edit | edit source ]

Head south-east into the Lumbridge Swamp, towards the hut. Equip a Dramen or Lunar staff and go into Zanaris , and head toward Fairy Nuff 's grotto, just north of the bank. Walk in, and you'll see a short cutscene. On the ground and next to one of the potion shelves is Fairy Nuff's certificate ; pick it up. Right click and choose "Study". Studying the certificate reveals its back, which is covered with strange fairy symbols .

Talk to the Fairy chef , south of the bank. She will tell you that she's seen similar inscriptions on a sign near the mysterious ruins — the Cosmic Altar ruins in southern Zanaris, next to the tanglefoot area. The inscriptions are south of the altar on the wall between two trees.

You must look at the sign and study the certificate.

The symbols say "Cosmic Rune Altar." If you were to translate it, the back of the certificate reads:

“ | The Godfather attacked us. We have fled to safety. If you are loyal to her majesty, find us by using the co-ordinates "AIR", "DLR", "DJQ", "AJS". | ”

Unlocking fairy rings [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to the Fairy Godfather in the Fairy Queen 's throne room located next to the Slayer master. Ask him what happened to the Queen, to which he visibly starts panicking and rushes to say that he will create a search party for her. Ask him both questions, and then agree to return to him once you've found the queen. The Godfather gives you permission to use the fairy rings to locate the queen. He asks you to speak to the Co-ordinator outside the room to learn more about the rings.

After talking to the Co-ordinator and being informed of the vast history of the fairy rings and the queen, head south-west to the fountains. Talk to Fairy Fixit near the fairy ring, south of the fountains. After that, use the fairy rings while wielding a Dramen staff (or a Lunar staff if you have partially or fully completed Lunar Diplomacy ).

Regrouping [ edit | edit source ]

With Nuff's certificate in your inventory, use the fairy ring four times in sequence. You will need to repeat this sequence each time you wish to visit the Fairy Queen's hideout. Once you have correctly done it once, the sequence of four appears as an option at the bottom of the teleports list. After the quest you will no longer need Nuff's certificate, but you will still need to do all four teleports. Nuff's certificate in your inventory must be obtained after you meet the required skill levels to complete the quest.

A I R (Islands: South of Witchaven ) D L R (Islands: Poison Waste south of Isafdar ) D J Q (un-attached code, will not teleport you anywhere) A J S (Islands: Penguins near Miscellania , or Queen 's location)

If you end up on an island with some penguins , you do not have Nuff's certificate in your inventory. You may also have skipped deciphering the certificate's message or simply missed one code in the sequence. (If you get the message "Maybe you need to investigate further first..", this indicates you correctly input the fairy ring sequence but may have skipped the sign at the Cosmic Altar.)

You should be in the Fairy Queen 's new location . Just go up the path, and head to the north-eastern room. Talk to Fairy Nuff and to Fairy Very Wise , who will inform you that the queen is not well because the Godfather has hurt her by not returning her magic secateurs . As her essence is drained, she cannot retaliate without obtaining the secateurs, which you accept to bring back.

Head back to Zanaris, and pickpocket the Fairy Godfather . This requires level 40 Thieving to be completed successfully. If you fail, you will be teleported outside Zanaris. A quick way to get back to Zanaris is the Salve graveyard teleport which will place you a few strides away from the Canifis fairy ring.

Try pickpocketing from behind or the side, and make sure neither of his henchmen are looking directly at you. You should get a golden Queen's secateurs . Also, at this point, you will see orks patrolling Zanaris.

Return to the Fairy Queen's Hideout by using the same four-ring sequence listed above.

Magic essence [ edit | edit source ]

Back at the fairy hideout, talk to Fairy Nuff , and give her the secateurs . She will use them to rejuvenate the queen, but they do not work completely. Nuff tells you that she needs a certain magic essence potion to replenish the queen's missing life energy. To make the potion, you need to collect some Star flowers and gorak claw powder .

Return to the fairy ring and use the code C K P , which transports you to a cosmic plane . Move around for about two minutes whilst the Star flowers grow. You can pass the time by talking to the Cosmic Being who lives there, contemplating the mysteries of the universe.

Pick a star flower when ready (49 Farming needed), and add your harvest to the vial of water (57 Herblore needed—however, if you are boosting , wait until you have the gorak claw powder because you need 57 Herblore to finish the potion).

Return to Zanaris , and withdraw any armour and weapons , along with around 10 pieces of good food . Goraks are very accurate, so take the best melee armour you have. They are aggressive, but luckily, they are not located in a multicombat area , therefore you can only fight one at time. However, by remaining in the fairy ring, they will not be aggressive until they are attacked.

Tips:

At the Zanaris fairy ring , use the sequence D I R to get to another plane full of goraks. They are level 145 or 149 and occasionally drain stat points. Kill them, eating food when necessary and drink restore potions if needed until you get a gorak claw . To leave, equip your staff of choice and teleport to Zanaris using the right-click option on the fairy ring.

The final scene [ edit | edit source ]

Note: Ensure you have retrieved the Queen's secateurs at this point, otherwise a dose of the magic essence potion will be lost and the queen will not regain consciousness.

Crush the claw with a pestle and mortar to get gorak claw powder . Mix the star flower and gorak claw powder into a vial of water to make a magic essence potion (57 Herblore needed). Return to the Resistance Hideout , use a dose of the magic essence potion on the queen , who finally regains her senses.

As the queen angrily prepares to return to Zanaris and take back her throne, Fairy Very Wise and Fairy Nuff remind her that the Fairy Godfather has thugs and orks at his disposal. His "army" has her easily outclassed, compared to her Majesty's small band of loyalists (many of whom are injured). The queen realises the flaw in the plan, and accepts the advice and allows the Fairy Godfather to remain Zanaris' ruler for the time being.

Congratulations! Quest completed!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 3,500 Herblore experience 2,500 Thieving experience An antique lamp granting 2,500 experience in any skill over level 30 Access to the fairy rings network Access to Fairy Fixit's Fairy Enchantment shop

Note: There are six Medium Achievement Diary entries requiring travel to a fairy ring which can be completed once fairy rings are unlocked: A L S ( Kandarin ); A I R and B I S ( Ardougne ); C I P ( Fremennik ); D I S ( Lumbridge & Draynor ); C I R ( Kourend & Kebos )

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Fairytale II - Cure a Queen is required for the following:

Hopespear's Will (miniquest)

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

All's Fairy in Love and War - Fairy Resistance hideout We are the Fairies - Cosmic plane Dimension X - Gorak plane

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

25 February 2016 ( update ) | Players can no longer show Nuff's certificate to the Fairy Godfather in Fairytale Part II while not carrying the certificate.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

This quest goes by a few similar names in RuneScape : 'Fairy Tale II - Cure a Queen' in the game window, when you click on the Quest Journal entry, and in the Quest Journal control panel. 'A Fairy Tale Part II - Cure a Queen' in the Knowledge Base . If you use Nuff's certificate on one of the sheep in Zanaris , your character will ask the sheep if it knows what the strange markings mean, to which the sheep will say: "The human's found some symbols and doesn't know what they mean so now it's cross-examining me and spoiling my routine!" This is possibly a reference to the TV show Lamb Chop's Play Along , as it can be sang in the same manner as the show's ending theme, "The Song That Never Ends", which is sung by a sheep puppet. If you use Nuff's certificate on one of the cows in Zanaris , your character will ask the cow if it knows what the strange markings mean, to which the cow will say: "Can't the human take a hint? I've been ignoring you! Do you think I would ignore you if I wanted to discuss your Rorschach ink-blots?" This is a reference to the Rorschach psychological test . The Fairy Godfather has a right click option of "Pick-pocket" rather than "Pickpocket" like most other NPCs. If you're doing the quest while you have a clue scroll (that requires the Fairy Queen to give you the puzzle box) in your inventory, when you give the Fairy Queen the Magic Essence, she quickly gives you the puzzle box for the clue. When you talk to her after finishing the box, the original quest dialogue starts back up. Despite being unattackable, cosmic beings technically have an internal drop table. This drop table is mainly composed of secondary ingredients for potions made using Herblore and a non-standard herb drop table that included grimy torstol , snapdragon , toadflax and rogue's purse .

v • t • e Fairytale II - Cure a Queen

NPCs | Martin Cosmic Being Ork Gorak Fairies Fairy chef Co-ordinator Fairy Fixit Fairy Very Wise Fairy Nuff Fairy Queen Fairy Godfather |  | Martin Cosmic Being Ork Gorak | Fairies | Fairy chef Co-ordinator Fairy Fixit Fairy Very Wise Fairy Nuff Fairy Queen Fairy Godfather

 | Martin Cosmic Being Ork Gorak

Fairies | Fairy chef Co-ordinator Fairy Fixit Fairy Very Wise Fairy Nuff Fairy Queen Fairy Godfather

Items | Nuff's certificate Queen's secateurs Star flower Gorak claws Gorak claw powder Magic essence (unf) Magic essence

Locations | Zanaris Fairy Resistance Hideout Cosmic entity's plane Gorak Plane

Related | Quick guide Fairy rings Lunar alphabet