 | This miniquest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Family Pest





Released | 1 September 2016 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Developer(s) | Unknown ( edit )



Family Pest is a miniquest involving the player excitedly asking to help the Fitzharmon family when it appears that they don't really need help.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Dimintheis in south-east Varrock. Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Unknown edit

Requirements | Completion of Family Crest

Items required | 500,000 coins

Recommended | Varrock Teleport or another method of teleportation to Varrock Ring of dueling or another method of teleportation close to mines north of Al Kharid Camelot Teleport or another method to travel to Catherby ( Catherby Teleport ) Method of travel to the Lumberyard ( Varrock Teleport , Lumberyard Teleport , Ring of the Elements , or Digsite Pendant )

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Desert ✓ - location requirement Kandarin ✓ - location requirement Fremennik ✓ - location requirement (for the prerequisite quest)

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Dimintheis , who is found in the closed off area in south-east Varrock. You will enthusiastically ask if he has any more quests for you. After saying that he "couldn't possibly trouble you further", and that he is content with life, select the option Oh come on, however menial, I want to help! He will tell you although he doesn't have anything for you to do, his sons may.

You may visit his sons in any order.

Avan [ edit | edit source ]

Avan is located in the Al Kharid mine , north of Al Kharid . He can be reached quickly by teleporting to the Emir's Arena via ring of dueling , then running north-west.

Speak to Avan. You will ask if he needs help with anything, as you've had "a bit of spare time lately". He will say that everything is fantastic and thanks you for the perfect jewellery you obtained for him during Family Crest . You will then say that you have a LOT of spare time, and will help out with anything he can think of, but he refuses again.

Caleb [ edit | edit source ]

Caleb is located in Catherby , in the building north-east of the bank. He can be quickly reached with a Catherby Teleport if players have access to the lunar spellbook . Otherwise, players can use Camelot teleport and run south-east, or south-west from the white wolf mountain gnome glider.

Speak to Caleb. You will say that you are ready to help with whatever he needs (again). You will daydream about what the family will reward you with, only catching the last bit of what he says, which is investigating a broken lamping stick. You will then ask for him to repeat his problem, as your mind was elsewhere, but this frustrates him and he asks you not to worry about it.

Johnathon [ edit | edit source ]

Johnathon is located upstairs in the Jolly Boar Inn , north-east of Varrock . He can be quickly reached by using a Lumberyard teleport or Digsite Pendant , and running north-west.

He will excitedly ask for more help, in which he mentions a woman he loves is trapped in a tall tower, surrounded by a flying dragon. Ready to jump into action, you ask the location of the tower. It turns out, unfortunately, that he was joking.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

As the sweet smell of great rewards fades almost completely, head back to Dimintheis , who is happy to hear that his sons are doing well.

As you are about to leave, disappointed in the lack of help the family needs, Dimintheis suddenly remembers that he does indeed have something you can help him with: 500,000 coins. As they are supposedly a rich family, you ask him why he would need an exorbitant amount of money.

He will tell you that his family only pretends to be rich, and that they gave themselves a fancy surname. In addition, the gauntlets are not a family heirloom and that he asked the player to recover the family crest to appear wealthy.

Give him 500,000 coins. Miniquest complete!

Reward [ edit | edit source ]

Ability to own the steel gauntlets and all three of its upgrades ( chaos , cooking , and goldsmith ) simultaneously in unlimited amounts. Speak to Dimintheis or any of the brothers to receive their respective gauntlets free of charge.

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a miniquest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the miniquest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Speaking to Dimintheis after completing the miniquest reveals that he has many steel gauntlets in his basement, despite no noticeable sign that a basement exists under his house. Johnathon's joke about a lady trapped at the top of a large tower defended by a dragon is a reference of the trope of Princess and dragon , similar to Sleeping Beauty . Despite not being a differentiation from any known quest in RuneScape , there are two key differences between Dimintheis, his sons and their nobility status that is noted from this miniquest: In Old School RuneScape , Dimintheis tells you that his family are only pretending to be nobles, that the gauntlets aren't actually a family heirloom, and requesting the crest to be returned was just an act to appear wealthy. In RuneScape , Dimintheis' nobility is genuine and plays a role in the Defender of Varrock quest. Due to him being a descendant of one of the Elders of Avarrocka , he is capable of using the powers stored within the Shield of Arrav , allowing him to save Varrock from the zombie invasion at the end of the quest. This was made part of Old School RuneScape ' s lore when Defender of Varrock was added to the game in 2024, revealing Dimintheis' heritage is genuine. His sons in RuneScape can each give you the enchanted versions of the gauntlets for 1,000,000 coins after completing only Family Crest without having to do a mini-quest.

v • t • e Miniquests

 | Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl Architectural Alliance (removed) Barbarian Training Bear Your Soul Curse of the Empty Lord Daddy's Home The Enchanted Key Enter the Abyss Family Pest The Frozen Door The General's Shadow His Faithful Servants Hopespear's Will In Search of Knowledge Into the Tombs Lair of Tarn Razorlor Mage Arena I Mage Arena II Skippy and the Mogres

Unofficial miniquests | Tutorial Island Natural history quiz Restoring the Sacred Bone Burner Knight Waves Training Grounds Rogue Trader Obtaining the ancient key