 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Fight Arena (#32)





Released | 23 July 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Mahjarrat , #3

Lead developer(s) | Paul Gower



Fight Arena is an intermediate quest . The quest is started south of Ardougne by the titular Fight Arena by talking to Lady Servil .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Lady Servil . She is west by south-west of the Monastery that is south of Ardougne . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | The prosperous Servil family have been abducted by the infamous General Khazard. He plans to have the family battle for his entertainment in the Fight Arena.
Can you rescue the Servils before the tyrant has these innocent (not to mention wealthy) civilians slain?

Requirements | The ability to defeat level 44, 63 and 137 enemies (all can be safespotted )

Items required | 5 coins (for Khali brew )

Recommended | 50 Combat level , combat equipment and some food Alternatively: Ranged , Magic or a Halberd to safespot all enemies (all enemies attack with melee)

Enemies to defeat | Khazard scorpion (level 44) Khazard ogre (level 63) Bouncer (level 137) General Khazard (level 142) - optional

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting the quest [ edit | edit source ]

To start the quest, talk to Lady Servil , located next to the north-west corner of the Fight Arena, which is by the north-east corner of the Tree Gnome Village maze. ( Note : You can use the Fishing Trawler grouping teleport to get there quickly if you have 15 Fishing .) Alternatively, you could use the Ardougne cloak's teleport to the Kandarin Monastery and run south west.

Ask her what's wrong, and she will explain that her family has been kidnapped by General Khazard . Offer to help her.

Walk east to a group of buildings located south of the local Monastery . The most north-eastern house contains one suit of armour (north wall 2nd from the east) which you are able to borrow and doing so contains the Khazard armour , crucial to complete the quest. After equipping both pieces of armour, head to the prison, which forms the south and east boundaries of the Fight Arena .

To save Lady Servil's family, you have to infiltrate the jail (south of the building with the chest). On trying to enter the prison, the door is locked, though the guards mistake the player as a Khazard Guard and let them in, as long as the player is wearing the Khazard armour retrieved earlier. Once inside, do not remove the Khazard armour as the guards will not speak to you without it equipped. You can wear anything else on you, as the guards are too daft to notice them.

Inside the arena [ edit | edit source ]

Sammy Servil (the boy in the purple shirt) is located in the northernmost cell of the east wing of the prison. Ask him where the cell keys are, and he will explain the guard has them.

In the south-eastern corner of the jail, you will find the Head Guard by the staircase. Talk to the Head Guard, and you will find out that he wants a decent drink, Khali brew , to be exact. He will also tell you that if he had too much, he would fall asleep. (The Head Guard is not attackable, so there's no risk of accidentally drawing his aggression.)

You must talk to the guard before purchasing the brew, or the bartender will not offer it.

The only bar that sells the brew is the one west of the western entrance to the jail. Khali brew is sold for five coins . Once you have purchased the brew from the Khazard barman , head back to the jail and offer it to the Head Guard, who will get drunk and give you the keys.

Get out your combat equipment and prepare for three enemies you must fight in a row, although most players will find them relatively easy due to there being safespots .

Use the keys on Sammy's prison door to free him after which you and Sammy will enter the main arena in search of his father Justin , who is being attacked by a Khazard ogre .

The battles [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

To save Sammy 's father, Justin , slay the attacking level 63 Khazard Ogre . You can lure the Ogre behind a skeleton and use Magic , Ranged or a halberd for an easy fight. Alternately, you can turn on Protect from Melee and melee it. If a fight sequence does not initiate, speak to Justin in order to continue. Note: If the fight sequence has already started, and you talk to Justin, a second Ogre will appear that you will have to kill.

General Khazard will then appear to tell you that in order for the Servils to be spared, you must become a fight slave. You will be locked in a prison cell. To continue in the quest, you must talk to Hengrad, your cellmate, to continue with the fights.

The second fight is with a level 44 Khazard scorpion . It's not poisonous, so another easy fight. It will be easily defeated by using the same tactics used to defeat the Ogre.

After defeating the scorpion, Khazard will release Bouncer (level 137). Bouncer is stronger than regular hellhounds , so do not underestimate him. You can once again use the safespot or alternatively you can melee him, Protect from Melee being rather helpful. If you do not have that prayer, bring high healing food .

Note: If you do forget to bring any ranged gear or food to help with combat, you are able to teleport out to gather items and return to continue the quest. When returning, speak to the Khazard Guard outside the by the door of the prison and he will take you back into the arena.

Once Bouncer is defeated, General Khazard (level 142) will become enraged at his only friend dying and will attack, trying to kill you himself. The Servils will escape whether or not he is killed; you do not have to fight General Khazard to claim the reward of the quest. You can simply walk out of the door (use its Quick-escape option to avoid having to confirm you wish to leave), and once you have walked away, General Khazard will not pursue you. If you do decide to kill him, you can once again simply trap him behind a skeleton.

After you exit the arena, return to Lady Servil to finish the quest and to get your reward.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 12,175 Attack experience 2,175 Thieving experience 1,000 coins The Khazard armour set

Unlocks:

Bouncer accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Fight Arena is required for the following:

The General's Shadow While Guthix Sleeps

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Attack 4

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

General Khazard will refer to the player as "him," regardless of gender. Players can avoid fighting the next creature between battles by moving around instead of continuing to the next battle, allowing players to rest before entering the next. Talking to any NPC will continue the series of battles. Bouncer counts towards a Hellhound Slayer task.

v • t • e Fight Arena

NPCs | Lady Servil Sammy Servil Justin Servil Khazard Guard ( Off-duty ) Head Guard Khazard Barman Hengrad Slave Joe Kelvin Spectator Door Guard Enemies General Khazard Khazard Ogre Khazard Scorpion Bouncer |  | Lady Servil Sammy Servil Justin Servil Khazard Guard ( Off-duty ) Head Guard Khazard Barman Hengrad Slave Joe Kelvin Spectator Door Guard | Enemies | General Khazard Khazard Ogre Khazard Scorpion Bouncer

 | Lady Servil Sammy Servil Justin Servil Khazard Guard ( Off-duty ) Head Guard Khazard Barman Hengrad Slave Joe Kelvin Spectator Door Guard

Enemies | General Khazard Khazard Ogre Khazard Scorpion Bouncer

Items | Khazard armour Khazard helmet Khali brew Khazard cell keys

Locations | Fight Arena Fight Arena Bar

Related | Quick guide Transcript Khazard Army