 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Garden of Tranquillity (#86)





Released | 30 August 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Martin B



Garden of Tranquillity is a quest that focuses on the garden of Queen Ellamaria of Varrock. The queen needs a farmer to tend to her garden as a surprise for her husband, King Roald .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Queen Ellamaria in the garden of Varrock Palace . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Long

Description | 'Queen of Varrock seeks experienced gardener to help construct a garden of peace and serenity as surprise for husband. Only serious Farmers need apply. Peasants welcome (although not that welcome). Tools not supplied. Please note: under no circumstances are the contents of this message to be disclosed to Rollie – um, one means King Roald.'

Requirements | 25 Farming ( not boostable ) Completion of the following quests: Creature of Fenkenstrain Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost

Items required | Ring of charos All tool leprechaun tools A rake A seed dibber (or partial completion of the Farming portion of the Barbarian Training miniquest ) A spade Secateurs ( magic secateurs work) A watering can A gardening trowel 2 plant cures A marigold seed (2 recommended in case of failure) 3+ cabbage seeds (6 recommended to plant in both allotments to increase chance of survival) 3+ onion seeds (6 recommended to plant in both allotments to increase chance of survival) A hammer A rune / pure essence A pestle and mortar A filled plant pot 2 ultracompost / supercompost / compost (note: Bottomless compost bucket will not work for these two required composts. The quality of these 2 composts do not matter.)

Recommended | 5 more ultracompost / supercompost / compost to increase the chances of your crops surviving (the quality of these composts *does* matter) An amulet of nature A fishing / fly fishing rod (at least in your bank; ultimately optional but highly recommended) Note: Oily rod does not work Teleport method to the following patch locations: Varrock Draynor Village ( amulet of glory ) Port Phasmatys farm ( Ectophial or Fenkenstrain's castle teleport and run east) Ardougne farm ( Ardougne cloak 2 +, Dramen / Lunar staff, or skills necklace ) Catherby farm ( Catherby Teleport ) Burthorpe tavern ( games necklace ) Edgeville Monastery ( combat bracelet or amulet of glory ) Lumbridge Falador Taverley

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | ( ) All seeds needed for the quest can be bought from Olivia in Draynor. Inventory space can be saved by creating the rune dust ahead of time: use the hammer on the rune / pure essence to create rune shards , then use the pestle and mortar on those to create rune dust . The hammer and pestle and mortar can then be safely discarded since they play no further role in the quest.

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest The quest is otherwise not completable. Morytania ✓ is required to start the quest, but the seeds require Kandarin ✓ to be unlocked.

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

Note: To obtain the ring of charos(a) , you need only complete the first few steps of this quest.

To start the quest, go to the kitchen in Varrock Palace , and then go east and then south into a fenced garden where Queen Ellamaria is. Speak to her and she will hand over a list of the plants she needs. Speak to her once more for the trolley.

Farming equipment [ edit | edit source ]

Throughout the quest the player should have these items present in their inventory.

A rake A seed dibber A spade Secateurs A watering can A gardening trowel

Ring enchantment [ edit | edit source ]

Players should then get the ring of charos obtained from Creature of Fenkenstrain , head for Draynor Village , and talk to the Wise Old Man . Be careful, if you have more than one ring of charos in your inventory or bank, the others will disappear. He will tell a story about Queen Ellamaria before she was married to King Roald , as well as the origin of the ring of charos. Give the ring to the Wise Old Man, after which he will ask seven questions to test whether the player is capable for the possession of an activated ring. Note that if you answer the first six questions correctly, the seventh question can be answered in any way. The questions are below, with the correct answers in bold:

1/7: Two goblins are fighting over the colour of their armour. What do you do?

Leave them to it. Armour's not going to help - any noob could take them. Kill them both and steal their bronze spears. Show them a range of colours so that they can come to a compromise.

2/7: A Drunken dwarf offers you a kebab. What do you do?

Run away leaving the lonely dwarf on its own. Stand there until he gets annoyed and attacks you. Take his generous gift even though you have no need for it.

3/7: Are you enjoying your experience of Farming?

Yes. Definitely. It's absolutely, unquestionably the most interesting thing I've ever done!

4/7: A dwarf asks you to put on a silly golden helmet so that you can be fired from a cannon into a wall. What do you do?

Refuse this crazy request blankly. Put the helmet on the dwarf and fire him into the wall. Put on the silly helmet and jump into the cannon.

5/7: You meet Pkmaster0036 in the wilderness who asks you who is the greatest player killer in the world. How do you answer?

Cower in fear and quickly cast teleport to Varrock. I am, prepare to meet your doom Pkmaster0036! You of course Pkmaster0036, no one could ever challenge your greatness!

6/7: Queen Ellamaria orders you to go on a foolish quest without any offer of reward. What do you say?

Stop ordering me about and get back behind the bar where you belong! I'll do whatever you ask - I just love the monarchy! Ask me nicely and I might consider it.

7/7: A Draynor bank guard asks you if you've seen any suspicious characters lately, because the bank has been robbed. What do you say?

Yes, that wise old man over there looks incredibly dodgy. If I do I'll let you know. No, especially not that wise old man, who doesn't look at all suspicious.

After answering the questions correctly, the Wise Old Man will enchant the ring of charos and return it to the player. The player will need to wear the activated ring (shown as "ring of charos(a)") and use the dialogue with "(Charm)" to persuade most of the NPCs the queen asked to find. You can try to charm the wise old man but you will fail.

Note: Answering most of the questions correctly is enough to receive the enchantment.

Obtaining the seeds [ edit | edit source ]

Elstan, farming patch south of Falador [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: ring of charos(a) , farming equipment and a marigold seed .

Recommended: compost / supercompost / ultracompost Go to the farming patch between Falador and Draynor Village , north of the cabbage patch.

Wear the Ring of charos(a) . Speak to the gardener Elstan . Ask if he has any delphinium seeds to spare. "Do you have any delphinium seeds to spare?" Select the 'charm' responses until he asks you to plant some marigolds . Agree to his request without using the "charm" option. If you use it, he will refuse and you will have to agree anyway. "(Charm) That is why I have come to an expert for advice." "(Charm) Not just AN expert, Elstan - they say you are THE expert" "(Charm) Oh, no, I love listening to gardening stories..." "(Charm) Millions? Ah, just what I wanted to hear..." Do not select (Charm). Instead, select: "Okay, I'll grow you some marigolds." After speaking with Elstan, the player must grow marigolds in the nearby flower patch from seed to flower. Marigolds take 20 minutes to grow, so it is advisable to move to the next portion of the quest and return once they are grown. Marigolds planted before Elstan's request will not count . Use compost (or supercompost / ultracompost ), water, and plant cure as you would with any other crop. Harvest the marigolds and give them to Elstan In exchange for the harvested marigolds, Elstan will hand over the delphinium seeds . If you lose these seeds, speak to Elstan again, and he will provide you with more.

Lyra, farming patch west of Port Phasmatys [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: ring of charos(a) , farming equipment , 3 onion seeds

Recommended: compost / supercompost / ultracompost ( Bottomless compost bucket will work here), the Ectophial or Dramen / Lunar staff for fairy ring A L Q or Fenkenstrain's Castle Teleport , and a plant cure .

Go to the farming patch between Port Phasmatys and Fenkenstrain's Castle . Wear the Ring of charos(a).

Speak to Lyra at the allotments . Ask "Do you have any orchid seeds to spare? " Select the charm responses until she asks you to grow some onions . Agree to her offer without using the "charm" option. If you use it, she will refuse and you will have to agree anyway. "(Charm) If you tell me your problems, I may be able to help you." "(Charm) Yes, I was wondering about that." "(Charm) Times must be very hard for you." "(Charm) Whatever you've done, I'm sure you had just cause." "(Charm) And what is the nature of this fee that you pay?" "(Charm) If not yours, then whose blood are you offering?" "(Charm) How can you deal with so much guilt?" Do not select (Charm). Instead, select: "That's a deal - I'll grow a patch of onions for you." After speaking with Lyra, the player must grow onions in a nearby allotment patch . Onions take 40 minutes to grow, so it is advisable to move to the next portion of the quest and return once they are grown. Onions planted before Lyra asks you to grow them will not count . The flower patch must be empty . Use compost (or supercompost / ultracompost ), water, and plant cure as you would with any other crop.

When the onions are fully grown, speak to Lyra again. She will give you three yellow orchid seeds and three pink orchid seeds for your effort.

Kragen, farming patch north of Ardougne [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: ring of charos(a) , farming equipment , and 3 cabbage seeds .

Recommended: compost / supercompost / ultracompost ( Bottomless compost bucket will work here), Dramen / Lunar staff for fairy ring B L R or a Skills Necklace ( Fishing Guild teleport) and a plant cure .

Go to the farming patch north of East Ardougne . Wear the Ring of charos(a)

Speak to Kragen at the allotments . Ask "Do you have any snowdrop seeds to spare?" Select the charm responses until he asks you to grow some cabbages . Agree to his offer without using the "charm" option. If you use it, he will refuse and you will have to agree anyway. "(Charm) You seem to be a little irritable, my friend." "(Charm) I don't like to see a fellow human being so upset." "(Charm) So what ails you, my friend?" "(Charm) Well, is there anything I can do for you?" "(Charm) So what can I do for you?" Do not select (Charm). Instead, select: "That's a deal – I'll let you know when your cabbages are ready." After speaking with Kragen, the player must grow cabbages in a nearby allotment patch . Cabbage takes 40 minutes to grow, so it is advisable to move to the next portion of the quest and return once they are grown. Cabbages planted before Kragen asks you to grow them will not count . The flower patch must be empty . Use compost (or supercompost / ultracompost ), water, and plant cure as you would with any other crop. When the cabbages are fully grown, speak to Kragen again. "Okay, I've grown those cabbages like you asked." He will reward your efforts with four snowdrop seeds .

Dantaera, farming patch in Catherby [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: ring of charos(a) , a gardening trowel , secateurs , a watering can , a spade , and a filled plant pot (can be bought from Vanessa next to the allotment farming patch north of Catherby).

Recommended: a Camelot teleport and an amulet of glory (for Edgeville teleport), or having started The Giant Dwarf .

Go to Catherby farming patch Talk to Dantaera . "Do you know how I could grow a White Tree?" Charm her. "(Charm) I think that there is something that you are not telling me." "(Charm) A secret is a dreadful burden to have to keep to yourself." "(Charm) Unless you allow me to do this she will die anyway." Dantaera will let you cut a branch of the white tree , which is on the top of Ice Mountain . Located west of Edgeville and north-east of Falador (not to be confused with White Wolf Mountain ) , near the Oracle . After talking to Dantaera, the player should prepare a filled plant pot , a pair of secateurs , a gardening trowel and a watering can with water. Teleport to Edgeville or the Monastery via Combat Bracelet and head west, to the top of Ice Mountain and find the white tree. Use the pair of secateurs on the tree, and the player will get a white tree shoot . Use it on the plant pot with soil (you will need a gardening trowel) and water it. After a while, the branch will grow into a sapling and is ready to be planted in the tree patch in Ellamaria 's garden in Varrock .

Brother Althric, Edgeville Monastery [ edit | edit source ]

Players should not throw away or destroy the ring before being told by Althric to do so. The steps mentioned in this section should be followed strictly.

Items required: ring of charos(a) and a fishing rod (optional)

Recommended: an amulet of glory (for Edgeville teleport) or combat bracelet to teleport right to it(soul wars minigame teleport also will bring you close).

Go to the garden at the northern side of the Edgeville Monastery , with the ring of charos(a) equipped. Speak to Brother Althric . "(Charm) These are the most beautiful rosebushes I've ever seen." He will claim the player is wearing an "evil talisman" and demands that the player throw it into the well in Edgeville , or simply destroy it. Players should not throw away or destroy the ring before being told by Althric to do so. Go to Edgeville and throw the ring of charos(a) in the well. You will recover it later, that's what the fishing rod is for. Fishing back the ring of charos.

With the ring thrown away or destroyed, players can go to the monastery and attempt to take the seeds again. This time, Brother Althric will be pleased and will allow the player to take the rose seeds. Players need all three kinds of rose seeds - red rose seeds , pink rose seeds and white rose seeds . If the player has thrown the ring into the well, the monk will mention a method to recover it. Players should get their own fishing / fly fishing rod , ( oily fishing rod and barbarian rod do not work) and use it with the well in Edgeville. It might take several tries, but the ring can eventually be recovered. If it is thrown into the well it is NOT possible to pickpocket a new one, it must be retrieved from the well.

Bernald, The Toad and Chicken in Burthorpe [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: ring of charos(a) , a rune / pure essence , a pestle and mortar , 2 plant cures and a hammer .

Recommended: a games necklace (for teleport).

Go to Burthorpe (you can use a games necklace or the Grouping teleport) and go to The Toad and Chicken pub. Equip your ring of charos, and enter the garden on the eastern side. Talk to Bernald and charm him. He will tell the player that his vines are dying and needs a cure. Use one plant cure on the vine, and you will find it's not working. Talk to Bernald again, and he will instruct you to find Alain at Taverley .

Head south to the tree patch in Taverley (near the entrance gate dividing the members and free-to-play areas) and speak to Alain. He will provide a method of enhancing the plant cure 's power. Do not use the "charm" option in dialogue, or he will refuse to help you.

After speaking with Alain , use a hammer on a rune / pure essence to crush the stone into rune shards , and then use the pestle and mortar on the shards to make some rune dust . Use the dust with the remaining plant cure potion to get a strengthened plant cure . Bring the potion back to Bernald in Burthorpe, and use it on the diseased vines. The vines will now be cured.

Talk to Bernald, and he will give some Burthorpe vine seeds . If you lose these seeds, talk to Bernald, and he will provide you with more.

Getting the statues [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: trolley (obtained during quest)

Recommended: a Lumbridge and Falador teleport .

Talk to Ellamaria and ask about getting the statues. She will provide a trolley for the player to push or pull the statues.

When there is a statue on the trolley, the player can choose to "Push" or "Pull" the trolley, causing the trolley to move one square away from or towards the player respectively. The option "Big push" allows the trolley to move several squares away from the player.

A teleport is recommended for players to get to the statues' original places.

Statue of a former king, Lumbridge [ edit | edit source ]

Walk or teleport to Lumbridge ; then, walk out of the castle . Examine both statues, and use the trolley on the one described as the statue of a "king" (should be the one on the south side).

Push or pull the trolley across the bridge directly outside the castle. Once the trolley is on the other side of River Lum , the scene will immediately change to the north backyard of Varrock Palace . Push or pull the trolley to the east, and then south into the queen's garden (Note, the first statue (King) is the north-east plinth).

Be careful not to get the trolley stuck or you will have to logout and log back in to reset it.

If the statue at any point gets "recaptured" (if you take too long to place it on the spot for the statue), you can get another trolley from the queen (Ellamaria) and you have to go back to Lumbridge and get the statue again.

The statue should be placed on the eastern side slot against the wall. When the trolley is pushed beside the spot, use the "place" option to place the statue, and the trolley will return to the player's inventory automatically.

Statue of Saradomin, Falador [ edit | edit source ]

 | Billy and Bob

The track that plays during the cutscene.



Walk or teleport to Falador , and use the trolley on the statue in the city square (not the statue in the park). A cutscene will appear, showing two guards , Bob and Billy at the north gate being killed by a player spoof named PKMaster0036 while the player tries to push the statue onto the trolley.

After the cutscene, the player should pull or push the trolley out of Falador as soon as possible . If the player uses too much time, the guards will discover the statue has been stolen, and the player will have to start it all over again.

Once the trolley is out of Falador, the scene will immediately change to the north backyard of Varrock Palace . Again, push or pull the trolley to the east, and then south, into Ellamaria 's garden.

The statue should be placed on the central slot. When the trolley is next to the spot, use the "place" option to place the statue, and the trolley will return to the player's inventory automatically.

Gardening [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: ring of charos(a) , farming equipment , two buckets of compost and all seeds and saplings from earlier sections. Note: There is no tool leprechaun in the garden. The nearest one is at the tree patch on the eastern side of the palace courtyard. Also, you cannot use the Bottomless compost bucket to do the required task and need two composts/supercomposts/ultracomposts in un-noted form.

You will not need to add compost to the allotments in the garden, nor water any of the patches. Use the rake to wipe out the weeds in all farming patches, and plant the seeds/sapling to where they should be placed. However, you will need to add compost to the orchid pots before planting them. The plants in Ellamaria's garden take 10–15 minutes to grow and cannot die. Make sure you've watered your White Tree Shoot or it won't work when you try to plant it.

After all patches are fully grown and the statues are in place, talk to Ellamaria , and she will ask the player to get King Roald . Go to King Roald, located in the south-east side of the Palace on the ground floor.

 | Touring the Garden

The track that plays during the cutscene.



Talk to him while wearing the ring of charos (a), and charm him when possible (or continue on without charming for an amusing conversation). A cutscene will play with the Queen of Varrock giving him a tour. Don't open any interfaces after the end of the cutscene or walk away from the queen, otherwise you will have to fetch the king again.

After a short cutscene , the queen will reward the player and the quest is complete. Congratulations!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 5,000 Farming experience An activated ring of charos - players can wear the activated ring to charm various NPCs to pay less for certain services, or get choices that are otherwise unavailable. An apple tree seed An acorn 5 guam seeds 4-dose compost potion , which can be used to turn compost into supercompost . After the quest, the player can visit the garden and pick 4 fruits from the white tree. They regrow after some time, similar to other fruit bearing trees. Each fruit restores about 8% of energy .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Garden of Tranquillity is required for the following:

Swan Song Medium Varrock Diary (pick a white tree fruit - will take a few minutes for a fruit to spawn after finishing quest) Defender of Varrock

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The player spoof that comes and attacks the two guards while the player is taking the Falador statue has the same name as the PKer that the Wise Old Man asks the player about. Since the seventh question has two correct answers, it is possible that just getting six out of seven correct is all that is needed. Upon trying, any answer to the seventh question will work so long as the previous six were answered correctly. Despite the fact that Queen Ellamaria says her patches "have been filled with extremely fertile soil that was very expensive to import", players still use regular compost on the plant pots to plant the orchids, although supercompost or ultracompost is also adequate. When Queen Ellamaria slaps King Roald at the end of the last cutscene, a health bar shows up above the King's head. When speaking to Kragen , the player character charms him by asking "What ails you, my friend?" This may be a reference to Pepin the Healer from Diablo . The player then asks "So, what can I do for you?" This may be a reference to Griswold the Blacksmith from the same game series. The white tree is a reference to the Tree of Gondor from The Lord of the Rings . If attempting to use the ring of charos to manipulate Alain, it won't work, and the player will say "It only works on the weak minded!" This is a reference to Jedi mind tricks in the Star Wars franchise. After speaking to either Kragen or Lyra and planting their respective crops, if players ask for either to watch the plot they will respond "I can't believe you're asking me to do that! I asked you to grow some _____ for me, not for me to look after them for you! No, I won't look after them!" Whilst fishing in the Edgeville well for the ring of charos(a) , the player character may say "la-de-da", "dum-de-dum", "Nice day for it", "(whistles happy tune)" or "oh come on..." depending on how long it takes to successfully retrieve the ring. If the Player does not equip the ring of charos(a) while talking to King Roald at the end of the Quest some funny dialogue can be seen.

v • t • e Garden of Tranquillity

NPCs | Queen Ellamaria King Roald Wise Old Man Dantaera Brother Althric Lyra Kragen Elstan Bernald Billy, a guard of Falador Bob, another guard of Falador PKMaster0036 Charos

Items | Ring of charos(a) List Rune shards Rune dust Plant cure Trolley White tree fruit Compost potion Seeds Delphinium Pink orchid Pink rose Red rose Snowdrop Vine White rose White tree shoot White tree sapling Yellow orchid |  | Ring of charos(a) List Rune shards Rune dust Plant cure Trolley White tree fruit Compost potion | Seeds | Delphinium Pink orchid Pink rose Red rose Snowdrop Vine White rose White tree shoot White tree sapling Yellow orchid

 | Ring of charos(a) List Rune shards Rune dust Plant cure Trolley White tree fruit Compost potion

Seeds | Delphinium Pink orchid Pink rose Red rose Snowdrop Vine White rose White tree shoot White tree sapling Yellow orchid

Plants | Delphiniums Grapevines Orchids (pink) Rose bush ( pink • red • white ) Snowdrops Vines Yellow orchids White tree

Related | Quick guide