 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Gertrude's Cat (#49)





Released | 28 July 2003 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tom W



Gertrude's Cat is a short quest in which you have to find Fluffs , a lost pet cat owned by Gertrude . Completion of the quest allows you to adopt a feline companion of your very own.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Go to Gertrude 's house which is just west of Varrock . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Very Short

Description | Gertrude has lost her cat Fluffs and desperately wants to find her. Can you help bring her home?

Requirements | None

Items required | Bucket of milk 100 coins Seasoned sardine (Bought from the Grand Exchange ) or alternatively: Raw sardine (Caught or bought from Gerrant's Fishy Business. ) Doogle leaves (South of Gertrude 's house)

Recommended | Skills necklace to teleport to Cooks' Guild Varrock teleport Lumberyard Teleport Ring of charos (a) (lets you choose the colour of your kitten ) An axe and 100 coins to cut down a dying tree in the Lumber Yard and create a normal plank for two easy Varrock Diary tasks.

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Unlocking Misthalin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Gertrude at her house west of Varrock , south of the Cooks' Guild , she will tell you that she has lost her cat, Fluffs . Gertrude will ask you to go and speak to her two children, Shilop and Wilough in Varrock Square .

Note: Before leaving Gertrude's house, pick up some doogle leaves to the south if you don't have a seasoned sardine already to save time later on.

Go to the Varrock Square and talk to either of the two boys. They will tell you about their secret playground, but they will not give you the location until you pay them. The player must pay them 100 coins.

Go to the Lumber Yard , north-east of Varrock, bring a raw sardine , a doogle leaf , and a bucket of milk .

The secret playground (Lumber Yard) [ edit | edit source ]

At the Lumber Yard , climb-over the broken fence on the southern side. Go to the middle of the Lumber Yard and climb up the ladder. There you will find Gertrude's cat, Fluffs . First, try to pick-up the cat, she will hiss at you. Use a bucket of milk on her and try to pick her up again. She will still hiss. Use the doogle leaves on the raw sardine to make a seasoned sardine . Give Fluffs the seasoned sardine. Once again you will not be able to pick her up because the cat seems afraid to leave and in the distance you can hear kittens mewing...

Go down the ladder and search through the nearby crates with the yellow "Mew!" above them. Searching the same crate repeatedly will not work. Despite the mews moving around, the kitten remains stationary. Keep searching different crates until you find Fluffs' kitten ; click on continue and the kitten appears in your inventory. If the kitten does not appear, log out and back in to trigger the event. Do not drop the kitten as you normally would, it will run away and you will have to find it again. With the kitten in your inventory, go back up the ladder and use it on Fluffs.

Fluffs and the kitten run off home. Note: The kitten disappears but Fluffs does not.

Return to Gertrude to complete the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Note: Wearing a ring of charos (a) when returning to speak to Gertrude after sending the cats home will allow you to choose the colour of your kitten upon quest completion.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,525 Cooking experience Your own kitten Chocolate cake Stew Gertrude will now sell kittens for you to raise for 100 coins each.

Note for ironmen : Keep the chocolate cake quest reward for the A Tail of Two Cats quest and the stew for the The Queen of Thieves quest.

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Gertrude's Cat is required for the following:

Icthlarin's Little Helper Recipe for Disaster - Freeing Evil Dave Medium Varrock Diary - Select a colour for your kitten.

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Gertrude's Cat

NPCs | Gertrude Shilop Wilough Gertrude's cat Kitten

Items | Doogle leaves Seasoned sardine Fluffs' kitten Cat training medal

Related | Quick guide Transcript Crate