 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Goblin Diplomacy (#15)





Released | 8 May 2001 ( Update )

Members | No

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Paul Gower



Goblin Diplomacy is the 15 th quest released in RuneScape . During the quest, the player resolves a long-standing dispute among the goblins of Goblin Village .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to General Bentnoze or General Wartface in Goblin Village . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Very Short

Description | There's a disturbance in the Goblin Village. Help the goblins solve their dispute so the world doesn't have to worry about rioting goblins. Aim: to help the goblins decide which colour they will wear.

Requirements | None

Items required | 3 sets of Goblin mail (obtained during the quest) 1 Blue dye (or 2 woad leaves and 5 coins to obtain a blue dye from Aggie ) Offer 20 coins to Wyson the gardener and he will give you two woad leaves 1 Orange dye – created by combining red dye with yellow dye 1 Red dye (or 3 redberries and 5 coins to obtain a red dye from Aggie ) 1 Yellow dye (2 onions and 5 coins to obtain a yellow dye from Aggie )

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Unlocking Misthalin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to General Bentnoze or General Wartface in Goblin Village , in the Kingdom of Asgarnia (located north of Falador , and east of Taverley ). They will say that the goblin race is on the brink of civil war over armour colour, and they want their armour to be orange which is different to their normal colour.

Gathering the required items [ edit | edit source ]

Skip this subsection if you already have the items required.

Ask the generals where you can get orange armour. Eventually, one will answer that you can dye Goblin mail orange. Grubfoot will mention he stole yellow dye from a witch in Draynor Village , and mentions you may be able to find it there. One of the generals will mention you can find goblin mail in three different crates around the village.
Grab the suits of goblin mail from the following crates:

Behind the generals' hut in a crate. Inside the western hut in between the small square hut and the generals' hut. Up a ladder near the gate to the goblin village.

Note: DO NOT dye 3 pieces of armour. You only want 1 blue and 1 orange. Leave one plain. If you mistakenly paint an armour you won't get new ones from the crates.

Alternatively, goblin mail can be obtained as a drop from killing goblins . The goblins in Goblin Village drop red or green goblin mails, which can be dyed, but you will need one uncoloured one from a standard goblin. You can go up the only ladder in the goblin village, up there will be some crates, search them to find a brown goblin mail.

Wyson the head gardener in Falador Park will sell you the needed woad leaves . Ask him if you can buy some. When you do, he'll ask how much you are willing to pay. Say, " About 20 coins ," and he'll say you are generous and will give you two woad leaves. This is the cheapest option.

Two onions can easily be picked from the field just north of Rimmington , or alternate places such as Lumbridge , in the backyard of Farmer Fred 's farm, which is next to the sheep paddock.

Three redberries can be purchased from Wydin's Food Store in Port Sarim for 3 coins each or picked west of Varrock 's south-east mine .

Making the dyes [ edit | edit source ]

Skip this subsection if you already have Orange dye and Blue dye .

You need to make orange dye and blue dye from the components you gathered in the previous section. Take the supplies to Aggie in Draynor Village , and have her make one yellow , one red , and one blue dye. To make orange dye, use the yellow dye and red dye on each other in your inventory.

The generals' verdict [ edit | edit source ]

Dye one Goblin mail orange, one blue, and leave the last one unaltered.

Go back to Goblin Village , and give the orange goblin mail to the generals. They will have Grubfoot try it on, and say they do not like it. They will ask for blue armour. Give them the blue goblin mail. Again, they will have Grubfoot try it on, and again, it is rejected. They now want brown. Give them the plain brown goblin mail. Grubfoot tries it on for the last time. They decide that the original colour, brown, is best after all.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Reward [ edit | edit source ]

5 Quest points 200 Crafting experience A gold bar

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Goblin Diplomacy is required for the following:

Recipe for Disaster/Freeing the Goblin generals The Lost Tribe

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest. Click here for a transcript of the quest's journal entry.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Until 17 July 2006, the quest was originally started by talking to the bartender in Port Sarim. This was perhaps meant to emulate other RPGs where players can start quests from random sources, by investigating a rumour overheard by a bartender or other random citizen.

v • t • e Goblin Diplomacy

NPCs | General Bentnoze General Wartface Grubfoot Goblin

Items | Goblin mail Blue goblin mail Orange goblin mail

Locations and scenery | Goblin Village Changing Curtain

Related | Quick guide Journal