 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Haunted Mine (#66)





Released | 21 December 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Ian G



Haunted Mine is a quest that explores the depths of a maze-like mine located south of Mort Myre swamp rumoured to contain powerful crystals infused with Saradomin's power. It is similar in terms of gameplay to Underground Pass , relying mainly on the player's own aptitude for exploration and aiming to instil an eerie atmosphere throughout.

Whilst the quest is standalone, it does reveal some backstory related to Morytania and Lord Drakan .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to the Zealot at the mines in Morytania on the path to Mort'ton. Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Short

Description | Recent forays into Morytania by some of Saradomin's more fanatical supporters have unearthed murky rumours concerning an abandoned mine in the south.
Legend speaks of an unusual material, hidden in the depths of the mines, that is somehow linked to the desolation and fear that now surrounds the place. Do you have the nerve to find out more, and enter the haunted mines of Morytania?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Priest in Peril 35 Crafting ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) The ability to defeat a level 95 enemy Access to Abandoned Mine

Items required | A chisel (can be acquired during the quest) A Zealot's Key (Pickpocket from Zealot)

Recommended | 50 Combat level 15 Agility ( boostable ) if climbing over the mine cart and crawling down the cart tunnel of the front entrance Completion of Nature Spirit for access to Druid pouch or Fire pit for Fires of Dehumidification. 40 Prayer A Dramen or Lunar staff (only if you cannot reach the starting location through the Shades of Mort'ton minigame teleport or a Mort'ton teleport scroll. You can use the fairy ring B I P (requires 50 Agility ) to teleport near to the quest start.). 1 Super energy potion if low Agility ( Stamina potion is HIGHLY recommended) A pickaxe to mine mithril ore after the quest (for the hard Morytania Diary ) (several low-tier pickaxe spawns throughout the mine) A Slayer Ring for easy completion of the Lair of Tarn Razorlor miniquest after completing Haunted Mine . The boss fight at the end of the quest is considerably more difficult than the boss's combat level may suggest. It is highly recommended to bring: Good combat equipment (at least level 50 is advised) 1-2 prayer potions Combat stat boosting potions (depending on your attack style ) Plenty of good food is strongly recommended for all levels, regardless of equipment and Defence 2 empty inventory spaces, one for Zealot's key and one for the glowing fungus Magic is recommended — see the boss section of the guide for more details It can be useful to bring either a (additional) melee weapon with high Strength bonuses , Ranged ammunition with high Ranged Strength bonuses, or high-hitting Magic spells . Take something with a high maximum hit. (High-hitting special attacks are recommended.)

Enemies to defeat | Treus Dayth (level 95)

League notes | Morytania ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Reaching the mine [ edit | edit source ]

To begin the quest, players need to head to the Abandoned Mine , which can be found in the south-westernmost part of Morytania , south of the swamps. To reach the abandoned mine players will either have to have started Nature spirit or have access to Barrows teleport or Mort'ton teleport scroll.

Players starting from Canifis will have to head west and enter the swamps through the gate. Travel south along the River Salve . Begin along the long winding path to Mort'ton . At the most south-west part of the path is the starting point of this quest. Look for a grey field on the minimap.

Players teleporting to Barrows using Barrows Teleport tablet need to head west and follow the Mort'ton the instructions from the following paragraph.

Players teleporting to Mort'ton with a Mort'ton teleport scroll or a Shades of Mort'ton minigame teleport , have to head west and follow the winding paths to the mine. Alternatively, if In Aid of the Myreque has been completed up to a certain point, they can head south and use the shortcut in Burgh de Rott 's western fence, but beware of feral vampyres .

Players who have access to fairy rings may find the following codes helpful:

C K S - West of Canifis , at the entrance gate of the swamp. B K R - South of Canifis, a short way into the swamp. B I P - On an island west of the Nature Grotto , which lies in the southern part of the swamp. You'll need level 50 Agility to cross a stepping stone to get to Morytania .

For the boss fight, high level food is strongly recommended, as you will take a lot of damage at all levels. If you have no previous experience (or limited memory) of the fight, read the " boss fight " section below in the quest guide. It is important to be well-prepared for the fight! Bring all the items required to finish the quest, including supplies for the boss fight (don't forget to bring a druid pouch if travelling through the swamps and not having lit the Fire of Dehumidification ).

The mysteries of Mort Ridge [ edit | edit source ]

In the area between the mine and the swamps, a Saradominist zealot is walking around. He demands to know your allegiance. Tell him either you are on the path of Saradomin or Guthix or have no particular allegiance, then ask about what he is doing in the name of the god of wisdom. (He will be less than friendly if you state you are Zamorakian and send you away.) He divulges he is on a quest to strengthen Saradomin's name in Morytania, explaining that you are standing atop the now abandoned Mort Ridge Mines that used to be exploited by the Morytanians until the Misthalin - Morytania War and the blessing of the River Salve . The mine is also said to contain the legendary Salve amulet , carved from the crystals that grow within due to the blessed river water seeping through the rock. This Salve amulet is said to afford its bearer power over evil , wherefore the zealot seeks to gain access to the mines and craft another.

He moreover adds that the mine is haunted; it was once protected by a Zamorakian mage named Treus Dayth , who was slain by Saradominists that managed to make off with a shard of crystal. The livid chaos god is said to then have cursed Dayth's soul and bound it to the crystals to prevent their being reached again. Moreover, following this incident, the ruler of the land ordered the mines to be sealed and everyone within to be slaughtered due to the crystals' effects. Rather than risk losing their workforce to the Saradominists, the Morytanians brutally killed them. The victims' souls are now rumoured to haunt the mine.

Ask about other entrances into the mine. The zealot confirms a second entrance may exist and has come into possession of a key granting access to the lower levels of the mine. He is still trying to work out where the second entrance may be, but remarks it was not made for humans. Ask him whether you may borrow the key; he refuses, saying the mission can only be entrusted to himself. No matter how much you attempt to persuade him, he will not part with the key.

Pickpocket him to get his key , which is needed later in the quest. Do not forget to get this, or you will have to come back for it later.

Walk south of the unfortunate cleric to the cart track; do not descend the stone stairs for you will be met by locked doors. Beware of the feral vampyres on the prowl. Climb over the second-to-last cart, then walk past the last cart and crawl through the cart tunnel. If you don't have 15 Agility to climb over the cart, go to the west side of the mountain instead and enter the northern entrance.

Into the depths [ edit | edit source ]

You find yourself in a dark cave with many bats big and small and many pickaxes and corpses strewn about. Some skeletons are dormant; the ones called corpses in yellow letters spring alive as skeletal miners when you approach. Similarly, some pickaxes may become possessed and attack you when you pick them up. Throughout the mine, you will also encounter many creepy hazes . They are spooky but harmless, although they can sometimes turn into aggressive ghosts when adjacent. Your task is to make your way to the depths of the caves and find the Salve crystal. Make sure to avoid any mine carts moving on their own accord; they will damage you if you get in their way.

In the cave, follow the cart track west. Ignore the two ladders going down, continue west and crawl-through the cart tunnel to end up outside next to the River Salve . Walk south following the tracks to a second cave entrance. Once inside, go east. You will find a ladder at the end of the blocked path. Go down the ladder to the next level in the cave.

Head directly east and go down another ladder.

Follow the path to the cart track running north to south. Do not get hit by the mine cart that is moving along on the track. Wait for the cart to head south. Follow the cart south and wait in the alcove on the west side of the track. When the cart passes north, run south to the ladder. Climb down another level, the fourth.

The fourth level of the cave has several landmarks which are marked on the map to the right. The corresponding letters show the locations of each landmark.

(X) The glowing fungi (P) The point-set panel (map of mine tracks) (T) The cart (Q) The levers A, B, C, D, and E (R) The levers F, G, H, I, J, and K (U) The water valve (A) A chisel spawn (13) The water-powered lift

Should you head down farther by going down ladders instead of taking the route taking you outside and make use of the lift, you will end up in a flooded, dark cave. The water extinguishes any light sources you might have and ruins tinderboxes . You will therefore need something to be able to see further into the cave. Fortunately, the cave described above is abundant with luminescent fungi that could well do this for you. Unfortunately, the mushrooms disintegrate when taken outside the cave, not able to withstand being exposed even the dimmed daylight of Morytania. As such, you shall have to transport a fungus to the flooded level without actually carrying it.

Getting a light [ edit | edit source ]

You are currently at Ladder (12) in the south part of the map. Head west and pick a glowing fungus (X) growing in the pools around you.

The glowing fungus is the light source required to access the deepest level of the mines. As daylight exposure will cause them to crumble to ashes , do not take glowing fungi outside of the cave. Random events that teleport players to another area (e.g. Quiz Master ) will also cause the fungi to turn to ash. Be sure to dismiss them as soon as they appear. Instead, the complex system of mine carts will be used to transport the fungi light source to the correct part of the cave.

After picking a glowing fungus (X) , continue north-west. On the west side of a pool, alongside four crates, is a searchable cart. Place the fungus in the cart (T) .

Warning! Do not at any point drop the glowing fungus as it will crumble to dust and you will have to retrieve another one.

From the mine cart, head north and then west to the track map (P) , which operates the cart system. Click the points settings panel on the northern wall of the corridor. It shows a map of all the cart tracks on this level as well as ten junctions that can each be in two positions. Pressing the red start button sets the cart system in motion. The objective is to get the cart from the start position on the left to the exit point at the ladder in the top right corner (north-west). If you fail, you can simply retry but you will need to replace the fungus.

The map also shows two groups of levers controlling the junctions. Examining them reveals to which they correspond. The levers A through E are south-east of the control panel (location (Q) on the map above), whereas F through J are north, around the corner (location (R) ). Beware of skeletal miners lying in ambush at both stations. In order to get the cart towards the correct exit, study the route map carefully. The levers F, G and H cannot be pulled, as they are inaccessible. These junctions are therefore fixed, limiting your options. The cart will follow the crimson (lighter red) route at any junction when approaching from the tail direction of the corresponding arrow. Pulling the respective lever exchanges the crimson and burgundy arrows at the junction. When approaching a junction from the arrow head's direction, its orientation (i.e., colour) does not matter as long as it is a straight path . In order to round a corner and not plunge into a wall or the water, the direction taken by the cart must be marked by a crimson arrow.

Levers A-E. Levers F-K. (The blocked levers F, G & H are unmarked in this picture.) The mine cart route solution.

Operate all the levers in accordance with the rules above and then check the control panel to make sure that the route on your map directs the mine cart to the ladder. Operate the mine cart by pressing the start button and the map will show the path of the mine cart.

Depending on the contents and route of the cart, four outcomes are possible. They are indicated both by the second half of the short cutscene, and a game message or player dialogue:

Oh dear, the mine cart seems to have sunk. - The cart sinks into the water. Any fungus in the cart will be destroyed. How useful, it's come right back to where it started. - The cart returns to the start. Any fungus in the cart will still be in the cart. Player: I wonder if that cart is anywhere useful now? - The cart successfully makes it to the other side. The fungus will now be on the other side. (No message) - The cart successfully makes it to the other side. There was no fungus in the cart before sending it.

If the cart sinks, the glowing fungus is removed from the cart. In that case, pick another glowing fungus and put it in the cart (T) . Operate the appropriate levers to fix the problem and hit the red button again.

When the mine cart reaches the correct end point, you will remark that it may have ended up somewhere useful. If your character doesn't make a comment about the location of the cart, put another mushroom in and send the cart off again.

You will now have to reach the ladder yourself to retrieve the fungus. First, retrace your steps to the very top of the mine. Go back up the ladder (12) near the glowing fungi pool. Walk north along the track, avoiding the cart. Take the first path to the east and climb up the ladder at the end of the path. Go west and up the ladder, then exit the cave to the River Salve .

You are now outside again and any fungi you have on you will crumble to ash. Go north and enter the northern cave. Climb down the first ladder immediately to the east and head north-east through the cave. Climb down the ladder to the next level. Head west to the north-west corner of the cave and climb down the ladder.

Search the nearby cart and take the glowing fungus that was put in earlier. Don't lose or drop the fungus until you have completed the quest! If you drop the fungus, it will disintegrate and you have to reobtain one. If there is no fungus in the cart, repeat the previous process starting by placing a new glowing fungus in the cart (T) .

Climb back up with the fungus in your possession. Do not take the mine cart track leading south. The only ladder you will be able to access, in the south-west, does not lead anywhere useful (namely, across the  pool with fungi).

Waterlogged [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Zealot's key, good armour and a good weapon , plenty of high-healing food . In addition to this, a super energy potion, or even better yet, a stamina potion , is highly recommended since killing the ghost requires a lot of running! An emergency teleport may be useful too.

Instead, head all the way east past the ladder going up and then south past a moving cart. Climb down the ladder to end up in a side cave east of the flooded tracks.

Head south down the corridor. Pick up the chisel (Ironman and lower level players; You can very easily return to grab the chisel after the boss fight to save an inventory slot. You will not need to do the valve run again.) from the spawn on top of a crate if you did not bring one. There is a water-powered lift going further down but it isn't working. There is a water valve next to it, at the other side of a large pipe, which requires turning in order to power the lift. Locate the water valve and attempt to turn it; it's locked but there is a small keyhole in its side.

Use the zealot's key on the valve to activate the water flow from the nearby basin. Make sure you have sufficient run energy before heading back to the lift, for a mischievous ghost will appear and try to shut off the valve before you can reach the lift. Run quickly around the water pipe system to the lift and go down. If the ghosts beats you, simply turn the valve again and retry. The lift remains operational after the initial activation, so the zealot's key is no longer needed. He can be pickpocketed again to obtain another key though.

The lift will drop you into a pool of water. To go back up, simply click on the lift and you will automatically swim towards it. From the flooded chamber, walk south onto the track (beware of possessed pickaxes) and follow it to the east . (The western corridor leads to a locked door that you cannot open yet.) Proceed down the staircase. With the glowing fungus , the cave will be properly lit. Go west through the door into a large chamber with loading cranes and mine carts . This room is where the boss fight will take place. Do not take the innocent-looking key until you are completely ready to begin!

Treus's wrath [ edit | edit source ]

To start the fight, try to pick up the innocent-looking key . It will float away and return. Click the chatbox to continue the dialogue and the ghost of Treus Dayth (combat level 95), the erstwhile guardian of the Salve crystals, will appear and start to attack you! He will be identified on the minimap as a flashing yellow arrow. He will use his ghostly powers to move through obstacles about the room and mainly attack you with his ranged attack and possessed machinery, When chasing Treus Dayth, try to stay out of the way of the moving carts and the cranes.

The ghost itself is not that strong, but the damage from the environment can be serious. Treus will continually become invisible and move to another part of the chamber after some hits are dealt — and the more the fight progresses, the sooner he will move, sometimes even after one hit, which is where weapons with a high maximum hit comes in handy — which makes killing this boss very difficult/time consuming without energy / super energy / stamina potions . Whilst invisible, he cannot be attacked, but a yellow arrow indicates where he is. A large supply of food and optionally potions is advised depending on your combat level. An emergency teleport (a ring of life or the Ectophial ) is very useful too.

During the fight, carts and cranes around the room will start to operate and can cause major harm, so players should avoid them when possible. The cranes are stationary and can hit for fairly high typeless damage, but they are inaccurate and easily avoided by staying out of their reach. The carts can only move along the track they are on, similar to the other carts in the dungeon. However, these carts are dangerous because they can hit rapidly, dealing up to 9 damage every tick while dragging a player along the track. Additionally, pickaxes will be constantly thrown at the player during the fight, hitting as much as 15 damage in one attack. Protect from Missiles is recommended for this fight, although it only provides 33% protection against the pickaxes, reducing their max hit to 10 damage. Magic attacks are very effective against the boss. Killing Treus Dayth counts towards ghost Slayer tasks. A kill will grant 100 slayer experience.

A highly viable strategy for low to mid-level players who can equip Iban's staff (requiring 50 Attack , Magic , and completion of Underground Pass ) is to use Iban Blast , as it hits accurately (especially against this boss) and very high. If using Melee , bring the highest-hitting melee weapon you can use, such as a 2h sword or halberd , as this boss has a high chance to teleport somewhere else after being hit.

Interestingly, Treus Dayth's attack speed while not teleporting is dramatically lowered to a 30-tick cycle if he is successfully poisoned . He is, however, immune to poison damage.

Tip : If things get heavy and too difficult, you can walk out by the door on the east and easily manage health and prayer there. The boss will not reset and still have the same amount of health as when you left the door.

It is not possible to freeze the ghost from moving using Magic or the Zamorak Godsword special attack. Crumble Undead works well against him, but be advised that a Skull sceptre (i) ( Must be imbued otherwise no requirements to wield), Slayer Staff (requiring 55 Slayer + 50 Magic) or a Void Knight Mace (costing 250 Pest Control points & requiring 42 Melee, Ranged, Magic, and 22 Prayer) are three of the lowest requirement weapons with which you can autocast Crumble. A trident of the seas and trident of the swamp are also good options.

An example strategy that works quite well: bring a 4-dose Prayer potion , optionally a Ranging potion , and the best Ranged weaponry you can muster, along with an inventory filled with food. Use Protect from Missiles at all times. When you reach Treus Dayth, switch on Eagle Eye to make your shots count, shoot, and then switch it off when he moves away (keep Protect from Missiles on). He likes moving between the north-western and north-eastern side of the room, in which case you are recommended to run along the northern-most cart track in the detached tunnel, where you only have to dodge one cart. If he moves south, try to hug the cavern walls to avoid the cranes as you approach him. However, don't hesitate while fighting — it's better to take a bit of extra damage and be faster than be indecisive and suffer as a result. Before fighting, you are also recommended to explore the room and practice how you are going to move around without taking too much damage — the machinery doesn't activate before the fight.

Using a dragon dagger is also a good alternative. Its special attack hits twice in one go, but this boss will only receive one of those hits before he moves away to a new spot and before you even get to him the second attack from the dagger will automatically hit him. You can keep using this tactic on the boss with minimum movement as you can use the dragon dagger's special attack numerous times during the fight.

A good mid-tier magic attack that works effectively is Iban Blast , or even Fire Bolt wearing chaos gauntlets on the cheap. The only downside to magic is that magic armour provides very little Ranged Defence; however, since the boss has negative magic defence, you can have a negative magic attack bonus of -35 or higher and still hit consistently. This allows for a set such as rune platebody / platelegs / kiteshield , farseer helm , amulet of glory , Recipe for Disaster gloves /chaos gauntlets, and boots of lightness with Iban's staff/ elemental staff to be an effective set both for damage and defence against the boss. Combined with decent food/prayer potions, you should be able to kill this boss fairly easy by just praying range and running back and forth along the northern tunnel if possible.

If you die, your items will appear inside a grave for 15 minutes. You must get another glowing fungus to get to the grave however. If you fail to retrieve your grave in time your items will be at Death's Office .

Salvation at last [ edit | edit source ]

After defeating Treus Dayth , the machinery will stop attacking you. Pick up the innocent-looking key, which no longer resists and is, in fact, the crystal-mine key . Now, head back east through the door and climb up the stairs. Walk all the way west until you reach another staircase and head down.

The crystal-mine key opens the large door to a room with several crystal outcrops in the south-east corner. Use a chisel to cut a piece from the crystal outcrop (35 Crafting required; boostable). If you forgot your chisel, go back up the lift and pick up the chisel from on top of the crate. You will obtain a salve shard that can be crafted into a new amulet. Be sure to cut extras for backup!

A nearby cart tunnel leads right back to the entrance of the mine and can henceforth be used as shortcut.

Congratulations, quest complete!!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 22,000 Strength experience The ability to make the Salve amulet , which when equipped gives combat bonuses against undead monsters. Access to a shortcut to the crystal outcrops Access to Tarn's Lair

Unlocks:

Treus Dayth accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Haunted Mine is required for the following:

Lair of Tarn Razorlor Medium tier of the Morytania Diary Hard tier of the Morytania Diary Elite tier of the Ardougne Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Spooky 2 | Unlocked on the first level of the mine. | 

Deep Down | Unlocked on the second level of the mine. | 

Chamber | Unlocked on the fourth level of the mine. | 

Haunted Mine | Unlocked on the sixth level of the mine. | 

Additional tips [ edit | edit source ]

Players can use a ball of wool on a salve shard to make a Salve amulet . The crystal-mine key can be added to the steel key ring . Mining mithril ore within the Abandoned Mine is a hard task in the Morytania Diary set. You can receive a pickaxe by attempting to take one of the iron pickaxes lying on the ground near the bottom of the lift, which will come to life (level-50) before dropping an iron pickaxe. The closest mithril ore vein is also in the south-east corner where you end the quest. If you don't have 55 mining, make sure to hang on to the crystal-mine key; this will make it much easier to complete the task later.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The mischievous ghost who attempts to shut the water valve and stop the lift will wail "wooo ooo oooo", even when wearing a ghostspeak amulet . You may return to the zealot to inform him of your success. He will not believe that you made it to the bottom of the mine without his key and will angrily take the key back if you admit that you stole it. Neither the Firemaking cape nor the Kandarin headgear work as a light sources in the deepest level of the mine. No message is given as to why they do not work.

v • t • e Haunted Mine

NPCs | Zealot Haze Ghost Mischievous ghost Monsters Animated spade Corpse Possessed pickaxe Skeletal miner Treus Dayth |  | Zealot Haze Ghost Mischievous ghost | Monsters | Animated spade Corpse Possessed pickaxe Skeletal miner Treus Dayth

 | Zealot Haze Ghost Mischievous ghost

Monsters | Animated spade Corpse Possessed pickaxe Skeletal miner Treus Dayth

Items | Crystal-mine key Damp tinderbox Glowing fungus Salve shard Zealot's key

Rewards | Salve amulet

Locations | Abandoned Mine

Music | Haunted Mine Spooky 2 Deep Down Chamber

Related | Crystal outcrop Quick guide Transcript Abandoned Mine Lair of Tarn Razorlor