 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Hazeel Cult (#33)





Released | 15 August 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Mahjarrat , #2

Lead developer(s) | Tom W



Hazeel Cult is a novice quest that was released on 15 August 2002 . It was the second quest to feature a Mahjarrat , and introduces Hazeel , a Zamorakian Mahjarrat that has been put into a state of torpor, and his followers are attempting to revive him in time for the next Ritual of Rejuvenation.

This quest is notable in that it has two sides, a "good" side and an "evil" side, sharing this trait with Temple of Ikov , another Mahjarrat quest. In the "good" side, the player foils the cultists in their attempt to resurrect Hazeel, and in the "evil" side, the player joins the cult and assists them in resurrecting Hazeel.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Central Ardougne , south of King Lathas ' castle . Talk to Ceril Carnillean . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Very Short

Description | Discover the truth behind the Carnillean family fortune. Decide for yourself whether to aid the Carnilleans in retrieving stolen goods, or join the Hazeel cult members in their mission to resurrect the infamous Lord Hazeel.

Requirements | Able to defeat a level 13 cultist (this applies only if you're taking Ceril's side)

Items required | None

Recommended | 10 Combat level Ardougne cloak for Monastery teleports. Stamina or energy potions .

Enemies to defeat | Alomone (level 13) if taking Ceril's side

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Introduction [ edit | edit source ]

You will have a choice between two sides in this quest. You can either choose to help Ceril Carnillean get his family armour back and foil the plan to revive Hazeel , or you can choose to help Hazeel's followers murder a Carnillean and resurrect their master. Siding with Ceril can be considered the "good" choice, while resurrecting Hazeel can be viewed as the "evil" choice.

Note: Both sides of this quest will give the exact same reward , with one exception: siding with Ceril will reward 5 additional coins and gives you the option to obtain Carnillean armour (detailed below), and siding with Hazeel will reward the Hazeel's mark , which is a purely cosmetic reward. Ceril's side is quicker, but requires killing Alomone , which is not recommended for very low-level players. Rewards may only be obtained during or upon completion of the quest, and can never be reclaimed afterward. Your choice will also have a minor effect on the events of the quest Secrets of the North , so choose wisely!

Walkthrough for the Ceril side [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Weapon, armour and food.

To begin, head to the south-western corner of East Ardougne. After speaking with Ceril , walk south and cross the bridge. Go east of the clock tower, and enter the cave (south of Valve 3 on the side). Talk to Clivet to learn about Hazeel , an ancient and powerful follower of Zamorak who was killed by an ancestor of Ceril. He will ask for your help in reviving Hazeel. Refuse .

Clivet will sail away on a raft, saying that you'll never be able to find him. Go back upstairs, find the sewer valves , and turn them in the proper direction.

After you've turned all five, go back into the cave. Board the raft, then talk to Clivet. Afterwards, talk to Alomone , who is in the last room to the south. He will tell you that the Carnilleans' butler should have killed you by now. He will then attack you. Kill him, then open the chest in the room to get the Carnillean armour . If you'd like an extra one for yourself, drop the armour, open the chest a second time, then pick up the dropped armour.

Note: Alomone can't be killed with a Dwarf multicannon .

Re-board the raft in order to return to the sewer entrance. Back at the Carnilleans' house, talk to Butler Jones , followed by Ceril Carnillean on the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] of the house. He'll take the armour from you and give you 5 coins, but won't believe you about Butler Jones.

Note: This quest reward is not the real quest reward, and is shown to players as a joke. You can claim your real quest reward ( including the Thieving XP reward) by searching the cupboard in Butler Jones room.

 | Congratulations! Quest complete!

Or not...



Search the cupboard on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] and you will find the Mark of Hazeel and a bottle of poison. Show these to Ceril. He will fire Butler Jones and give you the real quest reward.

Walkthrough for the Hazeel side [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Ceril Carnillean and accept to help him, then walk south from Ceril's house and cross the bridge. Go east of the clock tower, and enter a cave (south of Valve 3 on the map below, marked as "2: Clivet"). Talk to Clivet to learn about Hazeel . He will explain that Hazeel is an ancient and powerful follower of Zamorak who was killed by an ancestor of Ceril. He will ask for your help in reviving Hazeel. Accept.

The first thing you need to do is kill a member of the Carnillean family. Go to the basement of Ceril's house, and use the bottle of poison that he gives you on the range. Then, go upstairs and talk to Ceril Carnillean to learn that Scruffy, the dog, is dead.

Talk to Clivet again to begin the next part of the ritual. He'll give you Hazeel's mark , then tell you to find the cult hideout. You need to find five Sewer valves and turn them the proper direction. This can be done by clicking the valves, and selecting "Turn Left" or "Turn Right" in accordance to the checklist below.

Go back to the cave and board the raft. Once you're in the main hideout, talk to Alomone . He'll tell you to find a scroll . Go back to the Carnilleans' house.

Talk to Butler Jones ; then, search the crate in the basement for a chest key (make sure to finish the dialogue to get the key in your inventory). Go up the ladder, then up the stairs and knock on the wall in the east room, on the northern side, then finally go up the ladder. Use the key on the chest to get the scroll. Return to Alomone to start Hazeel's resurrection.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1500 Thieving experience 2000 coins (plus 5 from the fake ending if you sided with the Carnillean family) Hazeel's mark (if you sided with Hazeel ) Carnillean armour (if you sided with Ceril and obtained an extra during the quest) 5 Kudos , which can be claimed by talking to Historian Minas in the Varrock Museum

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Hazeel Cult is required for the following:

Secrets of the North

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Hazeel Cult

NPCs | Carnilleans Ceril Henryeta Philipe Scruffy Cultists Hazeel Clivet Alomone Butler Jones Hazeel Cultist | Carnilleans | Ceril Henryeta Philipe Scruffy | Cultists | Hazeel Clivet Alomone Butler Jones Hazeel Cultist

Carnilleans | Ceril Henryeta Philipe Scruffy

Cultists | Hazeel Clivet Alomone Butler Jones Hazeel Cultist

Items | Carnillean armour Hazeel's mark Hazeel scroll Chest key Poison

Music | The Cellar Dwellers

Related | Quick guide Transcript Scruffy's Grave