 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Heroes' Quest (#22)





Released | 27 February 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Paul Gower



The Heroes' Quest is a quest that gives access to the Heroes' Guild in Burthorpe , by completing the guildmaster's rigorous initiation test.

Note: This quest requires another player to complete. Players may use the Grouping interface's "Join" button on the Shield of Arrav category to enter a chat-channel for finding a partner.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Achietties by the entrance to the Heroes' Guild , between Taverley and Burthorpe . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Prove you are worthy to enter the Heroes' Guild. To prove your status as a hero you will need to obtain a number of items. There are many challenges standing between you and these items.

Requirements | A partner 55 Quest points ( required to start ) 53 Cooking ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 53 Fishing ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 25 Herblore ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 50 Mining ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I

Items required | Ice gloves (obtainable during the quest) or Smiths gloves (i) Fishing rod (obtainable during the quest) Fishing bait (obtainable during the quest) Dusty key (obtainable during the quest; if travelling to Taverley Dungeon for the lava eel , without 70 Agility ) OR a knife or slash weapon (if travelling to the Lava Maze for the lava eel ) Harralander potion (unf) (or a harralander and a vial of water ) Pickaxe If you are a Black Arm Gang member (Note: If you are returning to the mansion after the quest to help another player, you do not need the black armour anymore): Black full helm Black platebody Black platelegs If you are a Phoenix Gang member: Some form of Ranged or Magic attack method (if using a Toxic Blowpipe make sure it is set to Longrange)

Recommended | 50 Combat level Weapons and armour to kill the Ice Queen Stamina or energy potions Anti-dragon or dragonfire shield to protect against the blue dragons ' dragonfire breath Antifire potion to protect against dragonfire breath (Note: Using both the potion and shield fully negates dragonfire damage) Fast travel to several locations Burthorpe ( Games Necklace or Burthorpe Games Room grouping teleport) Varrock ( Varrock teleport , Chronicle , Ring of Wealth to the Grand Exchange or Combat Bracelet to the Champions' Guild) Brimhaven ( Brimhaven teleport , Teleport to House if it is in Brimhaven, charter ship or ship from Ardougne or Rimmington to Brimhaven or Amulet of Glory to Karamja)

Enemies to defeat | Ice Queen (level 111) (unless you already have Ice Gloves) Entrana firebird (level 2) Jailer (level 47, optional) Grip (level 22) (for Phoenix Gang members only)

Ironman concerns | The player briefly visits Entrana .

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

The greatest heroes of the land [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Achietties outside the Heroes' Guild just south of Burthorpe about joining the guild. If you meet the requirements, she will acknowledge your questing prowess and set you the entry tasks. She will tell you that in order to get in you need to give her three items: a fire feather from an Entrana firebird , a cooked lava eel , and a Master Thieves' Armband .

For the armband, she suggests you probably have 'relevant contacts' yourself with whom to enquire about it. To obtain the feather she only offers the most helpful advice that Entranan firebirds tend to live on Entrana . To get the eel, she advises you to talk to someone who knows a lot about fishing.

The items may be obtained in any order, but must be given to Achietties simultaneously.

Master Thieves' armband [ edit | edit source ]

To earn the armband, you will have to contact your old gang associates from the Shield of Arrav quest, as indicated by the quest journal. For this part of the quest, you will need the help of a player of the opposite gang. Players that have completed the quest may go back and help others. For finding a quest partner, the Grouping interface is useful. You can also usually find a partner on the chat-channel 'Osrs Soa' during peak hours.

Items required: A black full helm , a black platebody and black platelegs . The helm and legs can be purchased from the Champions' Guild and the platebody can be obtained from Horvik's Armour Shop in Varrock . Note: a black plate skirt or trimmed black armour will not work, whether your character is female or not.

Go to Varrock and talk to Katrine who is inside the Black Arm Gang Headquarters , which is situated in the south-west of the city. She tells you that you need to do something amazing in order to attain the rank of master thief. She explains some of the most coveted items for thieves are in Brimhaven . The leader of the pirates there is one Scarface Pete . She will tell you that you have to steal his very valuable candlesticks and that his security is very good.

You have to visit the Black Arm members in their hideout in the alleyway of Palm Street. The gang's password is " four leafed [ sic ] clover".

Go to Brimhaven and find the gang office, which is the building along the fence, east of the two inns and south of the Agility Arena . Give Grubor the password at the door, and inside speak to Trobert , the leader of the Black Arms in Brimhaven. Trobert explains one of the only keys to Pete's treasure room is carried by his head guard Grip , who was taking on a new deputy called Hartigen , a deserter of the Black Knights seeking employment in Brimhaven. The Black Arms have waylaid Hartigen and stolen his identification papers. Volunteer to impersonate Hartigen. He will give you the Id papers , which you will need to get into Scarface Pete's mansion, and tell you to introduce yourself to its guards.

Speak to Garv , who is the guard patrolling along the southern wall of the large building on Brimhaven's western side. He will not believe you are Hartigen, stating that the Black Knight dressed differently. Equip a full set of black armour : full helm, platebody and platelegs. Garv will then allow you to go inside tells you to speak to Grip.

Once inside, talk to Grip . He explains you will be working various guard duties, and that the important keys are in Grip's jacket. Ask him "So what do my duties involve?" and then "Anything I can do now?" and he will give you a Miscellaneous key .

Note: If you have already done the quest and have the Miscellaneous key in your bank, he will not give you a new one.

Grip won't allow you to enter the treasure room and you can't kill him without drawing attention to yourself. This means you will need an accomplice. Leave the building and trade the key to your Phoenix Gang partner.

Back inside, head into the north-eastern room from the entrance. Wait for your partner to get to the room behind the eastern wall, behind the arrowslit; then, search the cupboard . A pirate guard will say that Grip really doesn't like his drinks cabinet being touched, but open it anyway. Grip will then come into the room, telling you to get your hands off his drinks. Make sure the door is open. Grip can become stuck on the guards in the room, so you may need to wait or kill some guards to create space or else Grip may be blocked and leave the room. If this happens, just search the cupboard again.

Your Phoenix Gang partner will then kill Grip through the slit from the hidden room. Once he dies, pick up Grip's keyring .

Using the key, go to the treasure room (the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] room with coins on the floor next to the staircase in the north-west corner) and open the north chest in the first room to receive two candlesticks. Give one candlestick to your Phoenix Gang partner.

Go back to Varrock and talk to Katrine. She will give you the Thieves' armband .

Items required: A ranged weapon and ammo ( brutal arrows will not work) or runes for Magic .

Go to Varrock and speak to Straven at the hideout. Enquire about becoming a master thief. He will explain that some eager gang members are trying to steal the valuable candlesticks of Scarface Pete , the pirate leader of Brimhaven . He gives you the password gherkin to tell Alfonse , a gang member posing as a waiter in The Shrimp and Parrot inn.

Get a bow and arrows , or magic gear if using magic, before heading to Brimhaven .

Go to the Shrimp and Parrot restaurant in Brimhaven. Once you are there, talk to Alfonse the waiter and ask about gherkins. He will wink and redirect you to Charlie the cook in the back room. Give him the password as well and tell him you are after Pete's candlesticks. Charlie the cook will tell you that the restaurant was set up as part of the heist. There is a secret wall-door that opens into Mr. Olbors 's garden that you are able to push to open. Across the garden is an old side entrance into the mansion that has since been blocked. However, the Phoenixes are unable to get hold of the key to that door. The pushable wall is in the kitchen, in the same room as where Charlie is. Beware of Mr. Olbors's guard dogs .

Get a miscellaneous key from your Black Arm Gang partner. Head into Olbors's garden and enter the mansion's eastern door. Once inside, use the miscellaneous key on the northern door. This brings you in a cramped room with an arrowslit into a room with a cupboard. Shoot through the hole in the wall at Grip and kill him with Ranged or Magic . Your partner will have to lure him inside the room by rummaging through his drinks cabinet. Grip will drop the key for your Black Arm Gang partner.

Your Black Arm Gang partner will get two candlesticks and should trade you one of them.

Note: You must actually kill Grip! If you don't, Straven will NOT accept your candlestick. Don't buy it or the key off other players as shortcut; you can't kill Grip alone.

Go back to Varrock and give the candlestick to Straven to get the Thieves' armband .

Entrana firebird feather [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Ice gloves , or a pickaxe and combat equipment if you do not already own a pair. Dwarven Stout if boosting mining.

If you want, speak to a monk in the Entranan church about the firebird. He does not think they exist but redirects you to the head monk, who is more knowledgeable. The High Priest tells you that the bird lives somewhere on Entrana, and that you will need some cold gloves to pick up its feather.

The firebird lives on the northern half of Entrana . It is very weak and easy to kill. However, its fire feather is too hot to pick up; you require something cold in order to do so. In order to pick up the fire feather , you'll need ice gloves . They are dropped by the level 111 Ice Queen located underneath White Wolf Mountain . If you do not own ice gloves, see the section below.

Once you have a pair of ice gloves, bank your weapons and armour, but keep the gloves, obviously. Head to Entrana and kill the firebird near the Law Altar . Make sure to have the ice gloves equipped before picking up the feather.

You can also grab a fishing rod from the house beside the fishing platform on the south east corner of the island if you need a spare to use for making the oily fishing rod.

Recommended: Energy / stamina potions .

If you do not already own Ice gloves , go to White Wolf Mountain (east of Catherby , west of Taverley ), to the rock slide on the north side. It can be found just north-west of the gnome glider . Otherwise, enter the mountain at the southern entrance and walk or run north until you come to the rock slide.

Use a pickaxe on the rock slide and go through it (this requires 50 Mining and can be boosted). Once you are through, you will be near level 57 ice warriors and three ladders.

(confusing context: Just mine the rock and follow the path)

Use the southern ladder and go down the south-western tunnel. Go up the ladder just after the tunnel bends north. Once you go up, you will see level 53 ice giants there. Take the eastern ladder down. Go north through the long tunnel with level 61 ice spiders and ice giants (the spiders in the tunnel do not show up on minimap ). The tunnel makes a loop and ends at a ladder. Go up the ladder, then go down the other. Continue down the tunnel until it opens up into a large room full of ice warriors and the Ice Queen . Be careful because this is a multicombat area , so you will be attacked by multiple enemies at once!

If you stand behind the throne, you can avoid the ice warriors and can still attack the Ice Queen if positioned right. Kill her and she will drop the ice gloves. Once you have the gloves, exit using the same route back or teleport out.

Cooked lava eel [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: A fishing rod , fishing bait , harralander potion (unf) (or a harralander and vial of water ), fishing boost (if needed), other items depending on chosen location (see below), dusty key.

Recommended: energy / stamina potions . If you do not have 25 herblore, bring your botanical pie .

Go to Port Sarim and talk to Gerrant at the fishing shop . He says lava eels are tricky to catch and require a fireproof line. He will give you a bottle of blamish snail slime used to make an oil to treat a fishing rod. He says the oil is made by mixing the slime with harralander and water. Buy a fishing rod and some bait from him if you haven't got any yet.

Once you have the items, use the harralander on the vial of water and then add the blamish snail slime (this is the portion that requires 25 Herblore). Right-click the blamish oil and use it on a normal fishing rod to get an oily fishing rod .

There are two possible locations where you can catch lava eels : the Taverley Dungeon or the Wilderness Lava Maze . It is highly recommended that you go to Taverley Dungeon as it is much safer than travelling to levels 40-45 in the Wilderness to reach the Lava Maze and may be well worth it considering you will have to start over again and recollect supplies if you get pk'ed there. Don't forget your dusty key , anti-dragon shield and possibly antifire potions if you are going the Taverley Dungeon route! Also, don't forget your fishing boost such as an admiral pie for either route if you require it.

Items required: The dusty key (if you don't have 70 Agility ) - can be obtained in the dungeon, oily fishing rod , bait , fishing boost if using.

Recommended: The anti-dragon shield or a dragonfire shield and antifire potion . Also bring food or make sure you have ample prayer points for Protect from Melee if low-levelled.

Bring your fishing rod , bait , and other items. Take the balloon to Taverley, or teleport to Falador and walk west over the Agility shortcut (requires 5 Agility) or through the main gate, or teleport to your house if it is in Taverley .

If you have 70 Agility (which can be boosted), enter the pipe (be sure to wear your anti-dragon shield ) and run south. The fishing spot is near some baby blue dragons . Catch a lava eel .

If you don't have 70 Agility , follow the magenta path on the image to the right. Walk through the dungeon and use the dusty key on the door between the lesser demons and blue dragons . If you have 63 Agility, you can save a bit of time by squeezing through loose railings to go straight to the lesser demon area.

If you don't have the dusty key, go past the bridge, continue south-west past the hill giants , and you will enter the Black Knights' Base . Go to the east into a jail, kill the jailer and then pick up his key. Use it on the jail cell holding Velrak the explorer . Ask him if there are any good places to explore to get the dusty key. Head back north past the hill giants and follow the magenta path to the fishing spot. Use the key on the door between the lesser demons and blue dragons. The fishing spot is near some baby blue dragons; from here, catch a lava eel.

Items required: A knife or a slash weapon (use any Wilderness sword for fastest completion), oily fishing rod , fishing bait , fishing boost if using.

Warning : The Lava Maze is located in deep Wilderness . Beware of any player killers . They can commonly be found at the maze and will most likely have the level range to pk you. You may likely lose any quest items you are carrying and may end up needing to gather the items to make another oily fishing rod . Make sure to bring some food in case someone does try to kill you and make sure you are ready to fight!

At this point, travel to the nearest bank and stash anything that you don't intend on losing.

If you're going to the fishing spot in the Lava Maze , there are several methods of reaching it:

Teleporting there with the burning amulet . This is the quickest way. Casting the Ghorrock Teleport spell (or tablet ) in the Ancient Magicks spellbook, although this requires completing the quest Desert Treasure I . Use a waka canoe from Edgeville into the Wilderness. This requires 57 Woodcutting . From there, simply walk west to arrive near the entrance. Use the Wilderness Obelisks to arrive in level 35 or 44 Wilderness. Either teleport will place you close to the entrance of the maze.

Make your way through the aggressive black knights at the entrance. Make your way through the maze until the fishing icon appears on your minimap. This is where the lava eels are caught.

Fishing a lava eel here will also complete a Hard Wilderness Diary task.

Once you catch a raw lava eel , cook it over a fire or a range ( 53+ Cooking ). You can boost your cooking level with a Chef's delight ( 50+ Cooking ) or Chef's delight(m) ( 49+ Cooking ).

Note: Lava eels do not burn when cooked (or, indeed, when swimming in lava). Do not worry about obtaining multiple eels if you are worried about burning one.

Quest end [ edit | edit source ]

Go back to the Heroes' Guild , talk to Achietties outside and give her the three collected items.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 3,075 Attack experience 3,075 Defence experience 3,075 Strength experience 3,075 Hitpoints experience 2,075 Ranged experience 2,725 Fishing experience 2,825 Cooking experience 1,575 Woodcutting experience 1,575 Firemaking experience 2,275 Smithing experience 2,575 Mining experience 1,325 Herblore experience Access to the Heroes' Guild The ability to purchase and wield dragon battleaxes and maces Ability to recharge amulets of glory at the Fountain of Rune (This grants 6 charges instead of the usual 4) Ability to use Charge dragonstone jewellery scrolls . Access to the Fountain of Heroes , where players can recharge their amulets of glory

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Heroes' Quest is required for the following:

Throne of Miscellania Legends' Quest Recipe for Disaster The Fremennik Exiles Hard Falador Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

5 October 2022 ( update ) | Heroes' Quest has been fixed for players stuck in a broken state. Apparently, somebody managed to start the quest as a Phoenix Gang member, even though they're actually in the Black Arm Gang. What an experience that must have been!

26 January - 25 June 2005 | The quest was renamed from "Hero's Quest" to "Heroes Quest".

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If you have completed the quest and are a part of the Black Arm Gang , you have the ability to help others who have not completed the quest and are members of the Phoenix Gang . First, you can enter the mansion without your full black armour and ask Grip for another miscellaneous key for your partner - to get another key, first ask him what your duties involve before asking "what can I do now?". Open the cabinet and allow Grip to walk into the room. Shut the door and trap him and the Phoenix Gang member must kill Grip. This will update their quest journal for the Heroes' Quest. Members of the Phoenix Gang who have already completed the quest also have the ability to help others who have not, and are members of the Black Arm Gang. Either use the miscellaneous key received while completing the quest initially, or get a new one from the Black Arm Gang member. Return through The Shrimp and Parrot restaurant to the kitchen, and then through the secret panel. Head past the guard dogs again and into mansion. Use the miscellaneous key on the door, and kill Grip once the Black Arm Gang member has lured him into position. After Grip is killed and before he respawns if the player searches the cupboard they will find Whisky . Attempting to drink the blamish oil results in the player saying "You know... I'd really rather not." Heroes' Quest was the first quest to have other quests specifically required to be completed, although Black Knights' Fortress and Dragon Slayer I had quest point requirements first. Other than Crafting, Magic, and Prayer, Heroes' Quest gives experience rewards to all skills that were in the game at the time of its release.

v • t • e Heroes' Quest

NPCs | Achietties High Priest Gerrant Jailer Katrine Scarface Pete Grubor Trobert Hartigen Straven Alfonse the waiter Charlie the cook Mr. Olbors Garv Velrak the explorer Enemies Grip Ice Queen Entrana firebird |  | Achietties High Priest Gerrant Jailer Katrine Scarface Pete Grubor Trobert Hartigen Straven Alfonse the waiter Charlie the cook Mr. Olbors Garv Velrak the explorer | Enemies | Grip Ice Queen Entrana firebird

 | Achietties High Priest Gerrant Jailer Katrine Scarface Pete Grubor Trobert Hartigen Straven Alfonse the waiter Charlie the cook Mr. Olbors Garv Velrak the explorer

Enemies | Grip Ice Queen Entrana firebird

Items | Blamish snail slime Blamish oil Oily fishing rod Jail key Lava eel (raw) Id papers Miscellaneous key Grip's keyring Pete's candlestick Thieves' armband Ice gloves Fire feather

Related | Quick guide Transcript

v • t • e Heroes' Guild

NPCs | Achietties Helemos

Monsters | Blue dragon Giant bat

Features | Fountain of Heroes Happy Heroes' H'emporium. Heroes' Guild mine

Related | Dragon battleaxe Dragon mace Heroes' Quest