 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

King's Ransom (#127)





Released | 24 July 2007 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Camelot , #3

Lead developer(s) | Nancy J



King's Ransom is the final quest in the Camelot quest series , released on 24 July 2007. The player must foil a plot from the Sinclair family and Morgan le Faye to destroy Camelot and the Knights of the Round Table.

King's Ransom is the last " vanilla " quest in the game from before the creation of the August 2007 Archive of RuneScape . All subsequent quests were either developed exclusively for Old School RuneScape or (starting with Land of the Goblins ) ported from the original game after the 2013 server launch.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to the Gossip , outside Sinclair Mansion . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Life has been quiet at the Sinclair Mansion since you discovered the murderer... too quiet. So quiet, in fact, that the family has gone!
Suspicions are running high that the Sinclairs' recent departure is tied to the disappearance of King Arthur and his knights. But time is running short and clues are scarce, will you crack the case in time?

Requirements | 45 Magic ( not boostable ) 65 Defence ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Black Knights' Fortress Holy Grail Merlin's Crystal Murder Mystery One Small Favour Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual

Items required | Granite (any size) Telekinetic Grab runes (1 air rune and 1 law rune ) (can be obtained during the quest) Full black armour ( Black full helm , platebody , and platelegs / plateskirt )— Note: Trimmed versions of black armour will work. (h) versions will not work A bronze med helm (can be purchased from Peksa 's Helmet Shop. in the Barbarian Village , or picked up inside Draynor Manor near the exit) An Iron chainbody (Both the Iron Chainbody and the Bronze med helm can be bought upstairs in the Warrior Guild Armoury . If you can't access the Warriors' Guild you can get an Iron Chainbody from Wayne's Chains in Southern Falador , Horvik's Armour Shop in central Varrock , or the Grand Exchange ) Animate rock scroll (obtainable during the quest). Note: if you have it in your bank, either destroy it or take it with you. You won't be able to receive another from Wizard Cromperty otherwise.

Recommended | A teleport to Ardougne to talk to Wizard Cromperty A teleport to Camelot for a quick access to Seers' Village and Camelot A combat bracelet , amulet of glory , or Lassar Teleport for fast access to the Black Knight's Fortress. A Dramen staff or Lunar staff with code C J R for quick travel to Sinclair Mansion Salve graveyard teleports for quick access to fairy ring

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | 45 Mining

League notes | Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

To begin the quest, speak to Gossip outside the Sinclair Mansion , just north-west of Camelot Castle . He will explain to you that the Sinclairs have packed up and left after incriminating Anna as Lord Sinclair's murderer. This, however, may not be the same person you proved to be guilty in Murder Mystery . Gossip will explain that one of the family members provided new evidence to prove Anna's guilt. He will then go on to explain that King Arthur and his knights disappeared at the same time as the family's departure. Agree to investigate, and you will start the quest.

Now, speak to the guard who suspects that the Sinclairs have something to do with the mysterious disappearance of the king of Camelot and his knights. He suspects that since Lord Sinclair gave King Arthur the castle, the disappearances may be part of a bigger plot to reclaim Camelot. The guard will explain that the Seers' Council has forbidden anyone to enter Sinclair Mansion or Camelot to investigate and will so pass on the investigation to you.

Investigating [ edit | edit source ]

Break the window on the east side of the mansion, and you shall be inside. Now obtain the following pieces of evidence from their respective locations:

Evidence | Location

Scrap paper | Dining room on the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] . The paper contains incomplete scribblings about Camelot .

Address form | 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] library and take an address form that was never filled out, proving that the Sinclairs left for good, and never intended to tell anyone where they were moving.

Black knight helm | 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] library, western bookcase.

Return to the guard by right clicking the window and click on 'break' to get through, and present to him all three pieces of evidence. The guard will agree that there is enough evidence to prove malintent towards King Arthur . He says that since he has to follow proper proceedings that he will have to wait a month before presenting the evidence. You will offer to avoid the bureaucracy. He will then suggest that you learn more about the Sinclair family history, suggesting that town gossips know much about history.

Talk to Gossip . There are three options to ask. Ask all three to learn the Sinclair history.

The first two conversations are about the family history. Gossip will explain Lord Sinclair was a good friend of King Ulthas and did many good things for Kandarin . His children, however, were spoiled and horrid, but Gossip admits he didn't think they would commit murder. The second is about the mansion. He will explain that originally the Sinclairs lived in Camelot (then, under a different name). Lord Sinclair eventually sold the castle to King Arthur and his men. They packed up and built the Sinclair Mansion . His children were furious. The third option is about Anna . Gossip will tell you that she is in the courthouse in Seers' Village , giving a really hard time to the authorities. Gossip is positive Anna will receive a guilty verdict.

Head to the courthouse in Seers' Village (the building directly south of the mansion and south-east of the bank), and speak to Anna. She will say that the original murderer you suspected set her up. She will go on to explain that no one will believe her. She says the new evidence against her was forged. You will then ask her where her family has gone; she will say she doesn't know since she's been locked up. As you go to leave, she will make a deal to help you get into Camelot in exchange for help in receiving a not-guilty verdict. She will then hand you the criminal's thread that you found on the window in Murder Mystery . Anna will suggest that the servants may be able to provide testimony in her defence.

Note: It is possible to skip the following section and obtain a not guilty verdict. Just walk down the stairs in the courthouse, and the trial will begin. Asking the servants questions does not advance the quest and is only purposeful for those who wish to do so or want to (re-)solve the case themselves.

Return to the mansion to learn what the various servants will state during the trial. There are six in total, two of them being located outside of the mansion and the other four being located within it (once again, enter via the broken window to get inside). Ask them every possible question.

The first question will gather information on what happened the night of the murder.

The second question will gather information on where they last saw Anna on that fateful night.

The third question will gather information on whom they ever saw handling the dagger.

The fourth question will gather information on whom the thread may belong to.

The fifth question will gather information on the poison.

After talking to every servant (six in total), head to the lower level of Seers' Village courthouse to begin the trial.

The trial [ edit | edit source ]

During the trial, you will call witnesses by talking to the judge, and question the witness by talking to the witness. The questions you may ask correspond to those asked while in the mansion. To get a not-guilty verdict, you must rebut the evidence provided:

Anna's fingerprints on the dagger Anna having bought poison and not used it A thread from Anna's clothing being found at the crime scene Anna being at the scene of the crime

To successfully clear Anna of the charges, you must rebut this evidence without accidentally providing more incriminating evidence against Anna (for example, bringing out testimony which puts Anna near Lord Sinclair's meal before he died). To do this, call the following witnesses with the following questions:

Call the butler as a witness, and ask him about the dagger . Call the dog handler , and ask him about the poison . Call the maid , and ask her about what she saw the night of the murder . Call anyone and ask about the thread to complete the case for the defence.

The judge will end the trial and ask for a verdict. The jury will provide a not-guilty verdict against Anna.

Back to business [ edit | edit source ]

Leave the courtroom by clicking the gate; then, talk to Anna in her cell. She will go back to being rude, but will tell you how to enter Camelot .

Head to the east side of Camelot Castle , and search the statue near the temple.

You will now see a cutscene of Anna talking to David . The siblings were both responsible for Lord Sinclair's death, and set you up to trap you. They will explain they have no intention to help you. Suddenly, Morgan Le Faye will appear and knock you out with her staff.

In jail [ edit | edit source ]

After being knocked out by Morgan Le Faye , you will wake up in a jail with Arthur's Knights and Merlin .

Speak to Merlin. He will explain that:

King Arthur has been turned to a granite statue and taken away by the Black Knights . Both the Sinclairs and Morgan Le Faye have teamed up to destroy Arthur and reclaim Camelot castle. The black knights have also agreed to help Morgan Le Faye and the Sinclairs. Morgan Le Faye has stolen the Holy Grail .

Ask Merlin what to do. Follow all of the available conversation options.

Click on the vent at the top of the wall opposite the jail gate inside the cell. A funny animation will show Merlin escaping with the help of all the knights making a pyramid, allowing him to reach the vent.

Note: If you need to leave during this portion of the quest, click on the vent again and the knights will lift you out of the cell. To continue the quest later on, make your way back to Camelot and click on the gates or search the statue again to be teleported back into the cell by Morgan Le Faye.

If you brought the runes for it, use Telekinetic Grab on the guard fixing his hair outside the cell to obtain a hair clip and use it on the metal door. Otherwise, talk to all of the knights and ask them if they have anything useful to help them escape. You will get a lot of items such as an air rune , a law rune , an empty vial , a cooked shark , a normal log , a bottle of vodka , etc. If you received a lockpick , use it on the metal door; if you received runes, obtain the hair clip from the guard.

You will need to solve a puzzle to unlock the jail lock. The puzzle very closely resembles the popular game Mastermind .

To complete this puzzle, you must set each of four tumblers to the correct height. The most foolproof way to do this (not necessarily the quickest) is to set all tumblers to the lowest height of 0/5, and try the lock. If a tumbler shows a green circle, do not change that tumbler anymore. For all the other tumblers, increase the height by one and try again. If you see a red circle, do not try that height on any other tumblers. Continue until the lock unlocks. This method will take at most six attempts.

You will emerge on the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] of the Keep Le Faye . Arthur's knights will be engaged in battle with the Renegade Knights .

Finding the Holy Grail [ edit | edit source ]

Head to the top floor and search on the table to the north. You will now have to solve a riddle (click on Show riddle) and choose the correct container holding the Holy Grail . The correct box is the round purple one on the right, second last box if counting from left to right.

Freeing King Arthur [ edit | edit source ]

You must now free King Arthur from his stone prison. Head to Wizard Cromperty in East Ardougne .

Cromperty will explain you need to free King Arthur like you did to Petra Fiyed during One Small Favour , though this time, you also need to unravel Morgan 's spell. He will give you an animate rock scroll —you will need to use on King Arthur once you have both the Holy Grail and some granite in your inventory.

To actually get to King Arthur, you will need to have a bronze med helm , iron chainbody , black platebody , black platelegs / skirt and black full helmet .

Head to the Black Knights' Fortress west of Edgeville /north of Ice Mountain . (A Mind altar teleport is the closest teleport. Alternatively, teleport to Burthorpe with a Games necklace , use the Tight-gap and continue east along the Wilderness ditch .)

Equip the black equipment , and enter the Black Knights' Fortress through the guards' door. Then, push the wall right behind the guards' door. You cannot push the wall if you are not wearing full black armour.

Climb down the ladder, and you will see King Arthur's statue. Use the Free option.

Talk to King Arthur, and give him the guard uniform (bronze med helm and iron chainbody).

Return to Camelot and speak to King Arthur in his castle to finish the quest and receive your reward.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 33,000 experience 5,000 experience Antique lamp granting 5,000 experience to any skill level 50 or above Access to the Knight Waves Training Grounds The ability to use the Chivalry and Piety prayers, with level 60 and 70 Prayer , respectively, after completion of Knight Waves Training Grounds

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of King's Ransom is required for the following:

Knight Waves Training Grounds Hard tier of the Morytania Diary Hard tier of the Kandarin Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music [ edit | edit source ]

Knightmare Lore and Order The Sinclairs

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

10 September 2015 ( update ) | A cutscene in the King's Ransom quest has been fixed, it was cutting off King Arthur's poor head.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

When the quest was introduced in RuneScape 2 , the Party Room was moved from Seers' Village to Falador to make room for the Seers' Village Courthouse . When finding Anna not guilty, Party Room balloons fall down. This is because of the Party Room being here previously, as stated by the judge when talking to him after the acquittal, and the prosecutor also tells of the problem they have with the dancing knights . If you talk to Merlin after the quest, he will give you a hair clip as a memory of the adventure. When in jail, one of the knights is playing with a baseball; it's a reference to the movie The Great Escape with Steve McQueen . When the Knights of the Round Table die in battle at Keep Le Faye , they simply respawn where they were killed. When discussing with Merlin how to escape, your character asks if he's going to turn everyone into fish and swim out. This is a reference to the 1963 Disney animated movie The Sword in the Stone . Despite the 65 Defence requirement not being boostable, if the quest hasn't been started and the player boosts to 65 Defence, the quest log will show the requirement as being met. The Holy Grail riddle section is a reference to Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone , where Hermione solves a very similar riddle. In Murder Mystery , the player remarks that the Sinclair guard dog would bark loudly at any intruder. Sure enough, after the player breaks the window and enters the house, the dog begins barking. When talking to Wizard Cromperty about freeing King Arthur, he wonders aloud whether using a magical item that turns someone into stone on King Arthur would free him. You can use the ring of stone on King Arthur to free him without consuming granite. To enter the Sinclair Mansion at the start of the quest, you have to break a smashed window, which already doesn't make much sense. Subsequently, you have to break the already-broken smashed window to enter or exit the mansion.

v • t • e King's Ransom

NPCs | Alan Anna David Donovan Gossip Hobbes Court judge Louisa Mary Merlin Morgan Le Faye Pierre Prosecutor Renegade Knight Stanford Wizard Cromperty Guards Sinclair Mansion Courthouse King's Ransom Knights of the Round Table King Arthur Sir Bedivere Sir Gawain Sir Kay Sir Lancelot Sir Lucan Sir Palomedes Sir Pelleas Sir Tristram |  | Alan Anna David Donovan Gossip Hobbes Court judge Louisa Mary Merlin Morgan Le Faye Pierre Prosecutor Renegade Knight Stanford Wizard Cromperty | Guards | Sinclair Mansion Courthouse King's Ransom | Knights of the Round Table | King Arthur Sir Bedivere Sir Gawain Sir Kay Sir Lancelot Sir Lucan Sir Palomedes Sir Pelleas Sir Tristram

 | Alan Anna David Donovan Gossip Hobbes Court judge Louisa Mary Merlin Morgan Le Faye Pierre Prosecutor Renegade Knight Stanford Wizard Cromperty

Guards | Sinclair Mansion Courthouse King's Ransom

Knights of the Round Table | King Arthur Sir Bedivere Sir Gawain Sir Kay Sir Lancelot Sir Lucan Sir Palomedes Sir Pelleas Sir Tristram

Items | Scrap paper Address form Black knight helm Holy grail Animate rock scroll Criminal's thread Hair clip

Rewards | Antique lamp

Locations | Keep Le Faye Black Knights' Fortress Seers' Village Courthouse

Music | Knightmare Lore and Order The Sinclairs

Related | Quick guide Table (King's Ransom)