Lair of Tarn Razorlor





Released | 22 January 2007 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Developer(s) | Greg V [1]



The Lair of Tarn Razorlor is located in south-western Morytania . It is a complex dungeon with lots of undead , and features a miniquest to kill Tarn Razorlor , and take the book that enhances salve amulets which spawns in the next room after he dies. If you have a slayer ring , you can skip most of the dungeon by simply teleporting directly in front of his room.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Enter the Lair of Tarn Razorlor. Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | This miniquest is to kill Tarn Razorlor and retrieve his diary. Using his diary on a salve amulet will enchant it increasing its attack and strength bonuses by 5%.

Requirements | 40 Slayer ( not boostable ) The Haunted Mine quest is required to access Tarn's Lair .

Items required | 100 coins required each time you use the banker Odovacar (optional)

Recommended | 50 Combat level 43 Prayer to use Protect from Melee Slayer ring (allows one to skip the "Getting to Tarn Razorlor" section and start right at entrance into Tarn's Lair) A stamina potion if manually navigating Tarn's Lair Combat equipment Food Multiple prayer potions (Prayer is rapidly drained while fighting Tarn)

Enemies to defeat | Level 69 mutant Tarn , followed by a level 69 ghost Tarn

League notes | Morytania ✓ - location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting off [ edit | edit source ]

The easiest way to get to Tarn is to teleport to Tarn's Lair via a slayer ring . This will bring you directly outside of the room with Tarn. Doing so will mean you can skip all of the traps and the entire route, and get right to the boss fight.

Alternatively, teleport to Canifis , then go via the Myreque shortcut to Burgh de Rott , or use the Grouping interface and its teleport option for Shades of Mort'ton . There is an Agility shortcut between the town of Burgh de Rott and the Haunted Mine area. Climb over the mine cart just south of the Zealot (featured in the Haunted Mine quest), and enter the haunted mine, then travel north and enter the lair. Upon entering the room, a cutscene will appear showing Mutant Tarn and two terror dog statues .

The entrance is the same cave as the Haunted Mine quest (west of Burgh de Rott , south of Zealot , Climb-over mine cart, Crawl-down cart tunnel). Once inside the mine, Level 1, go north to the end of the path.

Reaching the bank [ edit | edit source ]

The banker is to the north-east. To get there:

When entering the lair, go east past the floor traps, which are indicated by a big X across the floor tile, and attacking monsters to the end of the passage. Follow the path heading north ( disarm the two wall traps by "searching" them, the southern one being attached to the western wall, the north one being attached to the eastern wall) the banker carrying a huge backpack at the end of the hall in a little room. It costs 100 coins each time to use the bank. Some of the undead in the lair drop coins. This is the last place to restock or heal prior to moving on to Tarn Razorlor .

Getting to Tarn Razorlor [ edit | edit source ]

The U-shaped hallway after the bank. The room with a giant skeleton in it followed by the room containing three floor traps. Pass through the inverted-T hallway, deactivate the log trap in the pillar room, and navigate the wall traps. Lastly, use Protect from Magic to nullify damage from the skeleton mages at the second room of pillars. Tarn is here!

There are many traps and two ways to deal with them; slowly disarm each trap, or ignore the traps and take the damage. There are also numerous monsters and passages within the lair.

Note: It is recommended that you have Auto Retaliate OFF whilst in the lair, because after disabling a wall trap, you don't want to run back across the spikes straight into the trap again.

Trap/Feature | Failure result | Notes

Floor trap | You will be hit 7-8 hitpoints if you run over a floor trap | They are fairly obvious, having a big X across the floor tile. Right-click and search floor to disarm the trap. Another simple alternative is to carefully walk around them.

Wall trap | You will be hit 7-10 hitpoints if you run past a wall trap | These are harder to see, but generally only occur in narrow passages, so check for them when you are in a narrow passage.

Log trap | You will be hit 15-20 hitpoints by a log trap, and knocked to a level below. | Log traps only occur on jumps to pillars. There is a nearby right-click "Search" floor which will disable the log trap near one of the walls. NOTE: If you fall at any point after having disabled a log trap, the trap will become active again the next time you attempt to pass it. Disable them every time.

Receding walls | You will be pushed by the walls, and knocked to a level below. | Occurs sometimes on slim ledges. Wait until the trap moves back into the walls and run past it.

Passage | N/A | Passages lead to new areas in the lair. Following the more ornate doors (especially with water-features) will eventually lead you to Tarn Razorlor.

Starting at the bank , go north through the doorway. Follow the U-shaped hall heading westward to the end, and take the south-western-most doorway. You will now be in a trap-less, square room with a single giant skeleton in it. Go into the square room to the north, which has three floor traps in it, via the northern door, and take the passageway to the west. You will now be in a hallway that looks like an inverted T. Take the passage to the NORTH , and go through the opening on the west side. Don't go all the way west in the inverted T-shaped room, or you'll face more traps and monsters and end up going in a big circle. (There are no traps in the first part of the hall, but the north hall has two; the first one is on the west wall, and the second one is on the east wall.) This puts you in room with a bunch of pillars that you must jump on. Make your way to the west side of the room using the southern pillars, and deactivate the log swing trap by searching the floor. Sometimes, the trap will not deactivate when you search it, thus you should click the floor again, and if the trap has been deactivated, texts will appear saying, "That flagstone has already been pressed down. You'll need to wait until it reactivates." Then, it will be safe to cross. The log swing trap will reset in 10 to 15 seconds, so you must move quickly. Use the second row of pillars from the west to go north. Follow the path to the east (with a wall trap on the south and then north walls), and you will end up in a room with a big hole in the centre. The walls will shoot out from time to time and knock you into the hole if you are standing there. Time your moves to avoid being knocked into the hole. Take the passageway on the east wall. (There's a total of four areas that will knock you to the lower area.) This is another room of pillars you have to jump on to get across; it does a zigzag across the room from the north-west to the south-east. You will be attacked by two level-94 skeleton mages as you are crossing this room. They will start attacking you when you reach the second pillar. It is recommended to turn on Protect from Magic prayer and ignore them. Hurry across, and go down the stairs. Once on the bottom floor, the passageway to the north leads to Tarn's chamber.

Preparations [ edit | edit source ]

Make sure you check your health, prayer (if you're going to use it) and have your equipment in order to start the fight, as once you enter there will be little time for any preparations. Note : Wearing the salve amulet is not required to start or end this fight. At least 2 prayer potions and/or 15 pieces of food ( monkfish or better) left is recommended prior to entering Tarn's room.

Strategies [ edit | edit source ]

The fight itself is fairly easy with high level combat stats (60+). He can attack with both melee and magic, but attacks solely with melee if approached. Since the terror dogs can only use melee, Protect from Melee is strongly recommended. Tarn Razorlor is the only monster required to be killed, so ignoring the minions and turning off Auto Retaliate is recommended. Prayer is drained constantly, regardless of the use of prayers. Make sure you keep an eye on it. During the fight with Tarn Razorlor, you can manoeuvre the terror dogs behind Tarn allowing you to only be attacked by Tarn himself, therefore eliminating the terror dogs from the fight completely.

Fighting Tarn Razorlor [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

 | Tarn Razorlor

The music which plays while fighting Tarn.



There is a prayer drain effect during this fight, so make sure that you're stocked up on prayer potions before entering, as you'll lose your prayer even if prayer-flicking .

A cut scene of Tarn transforming into a green mutant with lashing tentacles and unleashing two level-110 terror dogs appears upon entering the room. After this cut scene, the fight will begin. Animated steel armour (level 53) will also attack if moved near them. As soon as the cut scene ends, turn on Protect from Melee and attack Tarn , who is level 69 Combat. Be sure to turn on prayer before eating as well, as there seems to be a delay before you can consume food. If you poison him in mutant form, the poison will carry over to his ghost form. After his first form is defeated, he will turn into a ghost, but this form is easier to defeat. As soon as Tarn is defeated, the northern door will open up. Go inside. Neither the Animated Armours nor the Terror Dogs will despawn or de-aggro once Tarn is defeated, though doing the next step seems to "reset" the room's instance. Tarn's diary is in this next room on a table. Read through it to complete the miniquest. You can use the diary with a salve amulet to create a salve amulet (e) . This does not need to be done in the boss room, and you can enchant multiple salve amulets.

Note: Kill a terror dog while you are here to complete a Medium Morytania task.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

5,000 Slayer experience (only if not in Deadman Mode) [2] Tarn's diary Salve amulet (e) (20% Attack and Strength bonuses against the undead )

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Lair of Tarn Razorlor is required for the following:

Medium Morytania diary (kill a terror dog )

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a miniquest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the miniquest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If you do not have level 40 Slayer, you can traverse most of Tarn's Lair, but you cannot enter Tarn's room. You will see the following message: "An overwhelming aura of evil emantes [ sic ] from this doorway and you realise that some terrible, ancient evil lurks inside awaiting those not [ sic ] who have not progressed high enough in the ancient art of the slayer master! Cleverly you decide to return when your slayer skill is level 40 or higher."

Music [ edit | edit source ]

Undead Dungeon Tarn Razorlor

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Lair of Tarn Razorlor

NPCs | Tarn Odovacar Animated steel armour Giant skeleton Skeleton (mage) Skeleton Terror dog Terror dog statue Zombie

Items | Tarn's diary Granite helm Salve amulet Salve amulet (e)

Scenery | Passageway Hanging log Floor

Locations | Tarn's Lair

Music | Tarn Razorlor Undead Dungeon

v • t • e Miniquests

 | Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl Architectural Alliance (removed) Barbarian Training Bear Your Soul Curse of the Empty Lord Daddy's Home The Enchanted Key Enter the Abyss Family Pest The Frozen Door The General's Shadow His Faithful Servants Hopespear's Will In Search of Knowledge Into the Tombs Lair of Tarn Razorlor Mage Arena I Mage Arena II Skippy and the Mogres

Unofficial miniquests | Tutorial Island Natural history quiz Restoring the Sacred Bone Burner Knight Waves Training Grounds Rogue Trader Obtaining the ancient key