 | This miniquest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Mage Arena II





Released | 23 November 2017 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Developer(s) | Mod Jed



Mage Arena II is the sequel to Mage Arena I miniquest . Players with level 75 Magic and the ability to cast Saradomin Strike , Flames of Zamorak , and Claws of Guthix outside the Mage Arena can start this miniquest by talking to Kolodion in the Mage Arena bank.

Here, players must defeat three powerful god followers roaming the Wilderness; Porazdir , Justiciar Zachariah and Derwen and collect their remains in order to enhance one of their god capes upon quest completion. The player is thereafter able to retrieve various imbued capes by bringing just one additional artefact of the representative boss killed to Kolodion. A single remains type will allow the player to imbue each cape affiliate.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Kolodion at the Mage Arena bank located in level 53 Wilderness . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Medium

Description | Can you defeat the followers of the gods?

Requirements | Completion of Mage Arena I 75 Magic ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Cast Claws of Guthix , Flames of Zamorak , and Saradomin Strike each 100 times inside the Mage Arena.

Items required | God staves Runes to cast god spells ( air , fire , and blood ) Item to cut webs ( knife , slash weapon or any Wilderness sword )

Recommended | 80 Combat level

Enemies to defeat | Porazdir (level 235), Justiciar Zachariah (level 348), and Derwen (level 235)

Ironman concerns | Warning: This quest requires travel to the deep, level 56 Wilderness, and can require travel through various multi-combat Wilderness areas as well. Beware of Player-killers at all times.

League notes | Wilderness ✓ - location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Head to the broken down house north-west of the Mage Arena in level 55 Wilderness . Use a knife or slash weapon to cut down the two webs in the house. Once the webs have been cut, pull the lever on the wall to be teleported into a small cave. The cave is a safe zone ; you cannot be attacked by other players inside here.

Speak to Kolodion about additional challenges. He will tell you that he has been working on a spell that will increase the powers given by your god cape , but the components he requires are difficult for him to obtain. As the spell imbues the power of the three gods , namely Saradomin , Zamorak , and Guthix , he requires the components of three powerful opponents who are each aligned to a god. You will then receive the enchanted symbol . This acts similar to the enchanted key and strange device .

Tracking [ edit | edit source ]

Before tracking down the followers, it is highly recommended to set the Player 'Attack' option to "Always right-click" or "Hidden" in the Controls panel in the Options interface, as well as enabling "PK Skull Prevention", so you do not accidentally become skulled .

After you have received the enchanted symbol , you can look for the three god followers located within the deep Wilderness , around Lava Dragon Isle . Most areas will be in multi-combat zones, so stay cautious! Each use of the symbol can deal up to 16 damage, and can kill the player.

The three god followers can be tracked in any order, as you choose the follower to track with each use of the symbol. Once a follower is defeated, the symbol will no longer track that follower until the miniquest is complete.

The symbol functions similarly to the Hot & Cold from Master Treasure Trails ; as the player gets closer to where the follower is residing, the symbol will glow hotter, and the further you are, the colder it gets.

When the symbol states that it is visibly shaking, the follower will appear and attack you. Since you may run out of food most of the time searching for the followers, try to pinpoint their exact location before returning to a bank to restock on food.

The follower's spawn locations are random, and will change occasionally (approximately 45 minutes between changes); you will be notified of this when you use the enchanted symbol after the spawn change. Spawn rotations are unique for each player.

If a follower has already spawned in the location where yours is supposed to spawn, you must either hop worlds or wait for it to despawn and use the enchanted symbol again. The currently active follower locations are the same between worlds.

The followers [ edit | edit source ]

The followers are very powerful monsters, using powerful attacks and can also cast Ice Barrage and Tele Block . All followers can hit up to 43 (26 for Zachariah) with magic, and can also use melee, dealing up to 16 damage (43 for Zachariah). Protection prayers reduce the accuracy and strength of their attacks. It is possible to dodge the Ice Barrage attack by stepping off the square you were standing on when the spell was cast. Unlike other players' Tele Block, this only lasts for a minute if Protect from Magic is used, rather than two minutes. The Tele Block effect fades immediately upon killing the monster.

In addition, the followers can only be harmed by their respective god spells, so you must use all three god staves for each of the three followers. Alternatively, using the staff of the dead (or its toxic variant ), the staff of light or the staff of balance / void knight mace to autocast Flames of Zamorak , Saradomin Strike and Claws of Guthix , respectively, is recommended, as their magic attack bonuses are higher, in addition to making the fight slightly easier by allowing the player to autocast god spells.

Each follower also has their own unique ability, making the fight slightly more challenging:

Porazdir can launch an energy ball at the player that can hit through protection prayers. The amount of damage it deals is dependent on your distance to him. The further you are, the less damage it deals. Near him it can hit up to 30, but if the player is at least 12 tiles away from him it will hit 0. Justiciar Zachariah will occasionally swing his sword, resulting in a blue wave aimed at the player's current tile when it was used. If the player does not move, it drags them to melee distance, where he will also perform melee attacks. Simply move one tile elsewhere from its target tile to avoid the attack. Derwen can launch energy balls on the ground. They heal him for 5 health every few seconds, and must be destroyed to stop him from healing. Each ball has 20 health. Claws of Guthix is not required to damage or destroy the orbs.

A player fighting Porazdir, one of Zamorak's most trusted generals. A player fighting Zachariah, one of the last remaining justiciars of Saradomin. A player fighting Derwen, an ancient servant of Guthix.

Locating the followers [ edit | edit source ]

The safest method is to do the following for each follower:

1. Locate a follower using the enchanted symbol while consuming a cheap food source such as wine when the symbol deals damage. Bring a slash weapon to break through webs, energy potions , wine, and a level 30 teleport out of the Wilderness , such as an Amulet of Glory , Royal Seed Pod or Slayer Ring . Make note of the location, as you will need to return to it once geared up and restocked on food.

2. Leave and use the Ferox Enclave Pool of Refreshment to reset stats , prayers , and HP . Next, gear up. This is the ideal time to use stat-boosting potions, cast boost spells, consume overheals, drink a stamina dose, or use (and bank) an imbued heart .

3. Return to the location and kill the follower. Take the remains, teleport away, bank your gear, and go to Edgeville . Note that the remains themselves cannot be banked.

4. Hand in the follower's remains to Kolodion . The Edgeville Wilderness lever teleports you just east of the building with the lever. A knife or a slash weapon is needed to break the two webs leading to the Arena bank.

5. Repeat for the other two.

Killing the followers [ edit | edit source ]

As there's a risk of player killers , it's a good strategy to take as few valuable items as possible.

If the followers are not slain quick enough, they will despawn, and you will have to track it again and restart the fight. It's important to kill them quickly and efficiently, and the appropriate tools and gear must be used. The example equipment here shows a viable low-cost magic gear . Although the followers have a somewhat high Magic level, this is offset with extremely poor magical defence, so it may make sense to opt for a defensive gear, such as black dragonhide armour instead of magic robes , especially if your Magic level is high.

 |  |  | 

 |  |  | 

 |  |  | 

 |  |  | 

 |  |  | 

 |  |  | 

 |  |  | 

Your inventory should contain:

Stamina potion and/or Energy potions Saradomin brews Super restores Food ( sharks or better recommended). Enchanted symbol A knife or a slash weapon (if the target is behind a spider webbed area) 50+ casts of the appropriate god spell (more for Derwen ) Ring of recoil (with one already equipped) An escape teleport. This can be a Royal Seed Pod or an Amulet of Glory , as both work at level 30 Wilderness . An antipoison may be needed for some of the locations. Although the god followers do not inflict poison, poison spiders may roam in the vicinity of said locations.

It should be noted that blighted supplies can be used.



Even with Protect from Magic , they will still hit hard and accurately, up to 20+. However, their magical defence is extremely weak and not a lot of accuracy is needed to hit on them consistently. Thus, it is recommended to wear dragonhide armour , along with easily replaceable items, such as the Culinaromancer's gloves , the book of darkness or a dragonhide shield , and a god cape . If you have at least level 80 Magic , bring additional runes for Charge , as it will increase the max hit of your god spells from 20 to 30. ( Note - If you are doing this at 75 Magic exactly, you can drink an Ancient brew to boost to 80 and cast charge. Charge will last seven minutes. Alternatively, you can enter a practice dream at Nightmare Zone to drink a super magic potion and cast Charge before heading out to the Wilderness . It is also possible to drink a magic potion at level 76 to reach the required 80 Magic. )

If possible, use an occult necklace and tormented bracelet for their magic damage boost to increase max hits.

If players are assigned a black demon for their Slayer task , wearing a Slayer helmet (i) is recommended when fighting Porazdir , as the player's attacks would be more accurate.

Because of the high damage dealt by them, taking at least two rings of recoil gives 80 free damage over the course of the fight, which can be very helpful.

It is recommended to turn off Auto Retaliate for all the fights.

Use Protect from Magic and Protect Item . If prayer points can be spared (75+ Prayer ), it's also an option to enable a cheap magic accuracy prayer, such as Mystic Lore .

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Upon killing Justiciar Zachariah , Porazdir and Derwen , they'll drop a Justiciar's hand , demon's heart and ent's roots , respectively. Once you obtain one, run back to Kolodion so that he can hold it for safekeeping. If your supplies are low, it's best to teleport back to a safe location and restock on food and potions before giving the component to Kolodion. If you're killed, you'll have to kill the follower again.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

After collecting all three components, return them to Kolodion within the Mage Bank to complete the miniquest. After you have done so, you will be able to hand a god cape to Kolodion which he will then imbue . To acquire another imbued cape , the player must either find the corresponding follower to the cape that they wish to upgrade, kill it again for another drop and take it back to Kolodion, or purchase the cape from the Lost Property shop for 250,000 . It's possible to kill a follower multiple times to obtain extra components (but note that if you speak to Kolodion with duplicates of either of the components in your inventory, he will take all of them and only let you imbue one cape) to obtain more imbued god capes .

The imbued god cape , like most untradeable equipment, is automatically protected upon death in dangerous PvM scenarios outside of the Wilderness . However, should a player die to another player in the Wilderness, the player will lose the cape, and the killer will receive 60,000 coins as loot.

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Gallery [ edit | edit source ]

The demon's heart The justiciar's hand The ent's roots

Controversy [ edit | edit source ]

On release, players instead had to kill three god-aligned demons, the Demon of Darkness , Light , and Balance , and claim their hearts to finish the miniquest. However, the miniquest was criticised by players as being rushed and of lower quality than was to be expected from the Old School Team, for several reasons:

The three bosses were simply three demons recoloured from Kolodion's final form, and all of them had the same set of attacks, except for the god spells they used. The bosses had moderately high offence and defence in magic, making even the use of Charged god spells difficult to take them down. Despite the original Developer's Blog stating that only god spells will harm the demons, the twisted bow was made an exception, causing the fights to be made much easier due to its passive effect , with players accusing Jagex of going against what was polled. The Demon of Light and Balance contradicted established lore, since demons were followers of Zamorak and were abhorred by Saradominist and Guthixian followers.

Amidst these complaints, Jagex released a newspost on 20 December stating that they are aware that the content was not up to the players' standards, with the post addressing the issues listed above, among other related content, with an expected rework of the miniquest coming in early 2018.

The miniquest was overhauled with an update on 8 February 2018 , addressing all the issues listed above:

The demons were replaced by Porazdir , Justiciar Zachariah , and Derwen , whose appearances are unique and thematically appropriate to their alignment to Zamorak , Saradomin , and Guthix , respectively. Each boss, while having a set of attacks shared between them, has its own unique special attack. Despite their magic offence being almost twice as powerful compared to the original demons, their magic defence was significantly lowered to make up for it. Additional dialogue was added to Kolodion to expand the lore of the new bosses. The effectiveness of the twisted bow against the bosses was removed.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

11 December 2017 ( update ) | The Mage Arena II miniquest is now listed in the correct colour on the quest list.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Upon release, the quest journal stated prior to starting the miniquest "I must be able to defeat multiple level 257 demons", even though only one boss is a demon and is actually level 235. This was corrected in an update on 8 March 2018 . Upon release, once players had imbued their first god cape, they could imbue another cape without needing another demon's heart. In addition, casting High Level Alchemy resulted in receiving 60,000 coins. This was quickly hotfixed, with capes being obtained via this glitch and the ability to alchemise it removed. It is not known whether the ability to dodge the Ice Barrage attack was intended or whether this is a bug.

v • t • e Mage Arena II

NPCs | Kolodion

Bosses | Porazdir Justiciar Zachariah Derwen Former Demon of Darkness Demon of Light Demon of Balance |  | Porazdir Justiciar Zachariah Derwen | Former | Demon of Darkness Demon of Light Demon of Balance

 | Porazdir Justiciar Zachariah Derwen

Former | Demon of Darkness Demon of Light Demon of Balance

Items | Enchanted symbol Demon's heart Justiciar's hand Ent's roots Former Darkness Light Balance |  | Enchanted symbol Demon's heart Justiciar's hand Ent's roots | Former | Darkness Light Balance

 | Enchanted symbol Demon's heart Justiciar's hand Ent's roots

Former | Darkness Light Balance

Imbued god capes | Guthix ( max ) Saradomin ( max ) Zamorak ( max )

v • t • e Miniquests

 | Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl Architectural Alliance (removed) Barbarian Training Bear Your Soul Curse of the Empty Lord Daddy's Home The Enchanted Key Enter the Abyss Family Pest The Frozen Door The General's Shadow His Faithful Servants Hopespear's Will In Search of Knowledge Into the Tombs Lair of Tarn Razorlor Mage Arena I Mage Arena II Skippy and the Mogres

Unofficial miniquests | Tutorial Island Natural history quiz Restoring the Sacred Bone Burner Knight Waves Training Grounds Rogue Trader Obtaining the ancient key