 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Meat and Greet (#168)





Released | 25 September 2024 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Unknown ( edit )



Meat and Greet is an experienced quest where the player helps introduce the tasty kebab to the Kingdom of Varlamore.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Emelio at his home in Outer Fortis . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Short

Description | Bring the joy of kebabs to the land of Varlamore.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Children of the Sun

Items required | None

Recommended | 60 Combat level 43+ Prayer to use Protect from Melee and Protect from Magic Stamina potions or energy potions Combat equipment Food

Enemies to defeat | Dire Wolf Alpha (level 113) Minotaur (level 193)

League notes | Varlamore ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting off [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to Emelio 's house in Outer Fortis , just outside the eastern entrance to Civitas illa Fortis . Recognising you as an "easterner," Emelio will enlist your help in a business venture involving something called a kabit.

After you inform him that what he's speaking about is in fact called a kebab , Emelio will share his goal of introducing the kebab to Varlamore by opening up a shop. However, he'll mention that the spices and meat he ordered have not been delivered yet, and will ask you to speak to the spice merchant in the bazaar and Alba at Ortus Farm to see what the delay is.

Supply chain issues [ edit | edit source ]

Head west into Civitas illa Fortis , to the bazaar, and speak to the spice merchant in the south-eastern corner of the market. Ask her about the missing delivery, and she'll tell you the spices arrived that morning; however, Ali Morrisane , her "reputable" supplier, sent them in a locked box. Offer to help her open the box, which is a four-digit PIN. Based on the brightness of the keypads, the order of the numbers is 2546 . Press the → key to open the box, and she will send the delivery to Emelio.

Next, head further west to the Ortus Farm , and speak to Alba inside the building. She will tell you the order was delayed due to a pack of wolves causing issues for the farm. You will offer to deal with it, and she'll tell you that their den is directly west of the farm. Run all the way westwards until you see a pack of dire wolves , and enter the wolf den to face the level 113 Dire Wolf Alpha .

The alpha dire wolf uses a strong melee attack, and can summon dire wolves that accurately attack with ranged. However, the alpha will only summon wolves if the player is within melee distance. Players can use a safespot to safely kill the alpha by quickly moving behind the stalagmites north of the cave exit at the start of the fight.

Return to Alba to inform her the problem has been dealt with. She'll tell you that the meat was delivered during your time away, so head to Emelio's house to check in.

The golden ratio [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Emelio's to find he has gathered three "connoisseurs" from the nearby pub, and given them the individual ingredients to try. He will ask that you find the perfect ratio for the kebab. Talk to Vincens , Renata , and Lucas for their opinions on the ingredients:

Connoisseur | Ideal ratio | Formula | Conclusion

Vincens | As much sauce as spice and salad combined | S 1 = S 2 + S 3 | Sauce must be 3 portions

Renata | Less spice than there is salad | S 2 < S 3 | Spice must be 1 portions

Salad must be 2 portions

Lucas | Twice as much meat as there is salad | M = 2*S 3 | Meat must be 4 portions

Speak to Emelio, and give him above portion amounts. Once you confirm the amounts are correct, tell him it is perfect and he will give you a test kebab that the "connoisseurs" can try out. Give it to any one of the three, who will say it's brilliant and amazing. Speak to Emelio once more, and he will move on to the next phase of his plan: marketing the kebabs at the Fortis Colosseum .

Guerilla marketing [ edit | edit source ]

Emelio will give you another two test kebabs to bring to Lelia , located in the southern room of the lobby area of the Colosseum. Though initially skeptical, she will change her mind upon tasting the kebab, and will mention a free advertising spot that opened up for the next contest. She will suggests you head in, eat one of the kebabs, and fight a young minotaur as part of your advertising act. Prepare for an encounter with a level 193 enemy.

Lelia will ask if you are prepared before sending you in. Once you accept the fight, you will be brought into the arena, as the Colosseum Announcer advertises Emelio's kebab. You eat the kebab as instructed, but the young minotaur will mistakenly believe you ate minotaur meat rather than buffalo, and will attack you in anger. If you die or leave the arena during the fight, you can speak to Lelia to re-enter.

The minotaur attacks with melee, can move at running speed, can path around the pillars, and is immune to binds and poison. It is weak to slash attacks. Protect from Melee will block all of its primary damage, but it can also use two special attacks:

When it shouts Moo! , it will launch a magic attack. To block, switch to Protect from Magic until after the attack hits you, then switch back to Protect from Melee. When it shouts Moooooo! , it will attack 1 tick faster. Keep Protect from Melee on during this time.

Once the minotaur is defeated, Lelia will be satisfied, and will tell you to return to Emelio and inform him of the good impression the kebabs made on the crowd. Return to Emelio, who will give you a premium discount on any Varlamorian kebabs you buy.

Congratulations! Quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 8,000 Cooking experience Access to Emelio's Kebab Shop

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest. Click here for a transcript of the quest's journal entry.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Ali Morrisane does not give any clues on how to unlock the spice shipment. Despite the first boss being named "Dire Wolf Alpha," the concept of an "alpha wolf" has long been discredited by ethologists. The original concept came about based on a study of captive wolves by Dr. David Mech, who later disavowed his initial theory based on having flawed assumptions built in to his observations of a captive band of unrelated wolves. In reality, while there are pack leaders , Mech has clarified that there is no "alpha" wolf, and the pack leader role is not based on a fight for dominance, but multiple other factors, such as who is the breeding female.

v • t • e Meat and Greet

NPCs | Emelio Spice Merchant Alba Vincens Renata Lucas Lelia Colosseum Announcer

Enemies | Dire Wolf Alpha Minotaur

Items | Test kebab

Related | Quick guide Transcript Journal