 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Merlin's Crystal (#21)





Released | 27 February 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Camelot , #1

Lead developer(s) | Paul Gower



Merlin's Crystal is the first quest in the Camelot quest series , and involves the player rescuing the wizard Merlin from a crystal.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to King Arthur in Camelot . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | The wizard Merlin has been trapped in a magical crystal by the witch Morgan Le Faye . So far, King Arthur hasn't been able to figure out how to free his mentor from his crystal prison. Can you help?

Requirements | Must be able to defeat a level 39 enemy. You do not need to have an attack level of 20 to free Merlin, you can 'Use' Excalibur on the crystal to free him.

Items required | Bread Tinderbox Bucket of wax (obtainable during the quest with Insect repellent , a bucket spawns near the beekeeper) Bat bones (obtainable during the quest)

Recommended | 20 Combat level Stamina or energy potions Fast travel to several locations Camelot ( Camelot teleport ) Falador ( Falador teleport ) Varrock ( Varrock teleport , Chronicle or Combat Bracelet to the Champions' Guild) Taverley ( Taverley teleport , Balloon Transport System or Teleport to House if your house is in Taverley) Port Sarim ( Explorer's Ring 2 , Rat Pits or Pest Control minigame teleport, or Teleport to House if your house is in Rimmington)

Enemies to defeat | Sir Mordred (level 39) Giant bat (level 27) (optional, to acquire bat bones )

League notes | Unlocking Asgarnia ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: None.

To begin the quest, talk to King Arthur in Camelot , east of Seers' Village . Ask him if you can join the Knights of the Round Table, and he'll suggest you complete a quest first to prove yourself. He'll tell you that his friend and mentor Merlin has been trapped in a crystal and can't be freed, and suggests that you ask the other knights if they have any ideas.

Gathering information [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: None

Go talk to the other knights around Camelot . First speak to Sir Gawain (who can be found either roaming in the courtyard or inside the castle) and talk to him about Merlin , being sure to discuss both options. He'll mention that perhaps Morgan Le Faye will be of help, since she created the enchantment. However, he does not know how to get into her keep .

Next, talk to Sir Lancelot on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of Camelot Castle. Talk to him, and ask him if he has any idea on how to get into the Keep. He'll say that the only way to get into the Keep Le Faye is from the sea.

Infiltrating the keep [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: A bucket of wax or an empty bucket (obtainable during quest).

Recommended: Combat equipment, food, Varrock teleport , games necklace , amulet of glory or Falador teleport

Now that you've got a lead, head down the road to the south to Catherby . Once in Catherby, just south of the bank on the dock, is a general store merchant named Arhein . Speak with him about his boat and ask where it is going. Then, run to the house north of the bank, and grab a bottle of insect repellent off the table.

Grab some armour and go just north of the dock (between the bank and the Candle Shop ), and you'll find a few crates against the back of the shop. Click on them to hide inside. There will be a bit of dialogue as workers come to pack you up and put you in the boat. After a while, you'll end up in the Keep Le Faye ; when prompted, choose yes to climb out.

Freeing Merlin [ edit | edit source ]

Watch out for the renegade knights that are wandering around the castle, and run up the stairs to the very top floor. Up here, you'll find Sir Mordred (level 39); fight him, and just as you are about to defeat him, Morgan Le Faye will appear, begging you not to kill her son. Ask her about how to untrap Merlin. You must spare him in order to proceed.

In exchange for sparing him, she will finally tell you how to release Merlin . You will need a number of things to do so, noted below.

There are giant bats (level 27) right outside the keep. Just go down the stairs to the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] to get outside and kill one. Note: after you leave the keep, you cannot get back in, and will need to hide in the crate in Catherby once again.

If you need a bucket of wax , head north from the keep until you see a fenced-in area full of beehives (near the flax field). Pick up the bucket near the gate, then use the insect repellent on a hive to temporarily drive the bees away. Finally, then use the bucket on the hive to get some wax. If you have the bucket of wax already, you can simply return to Catherby by hiding in the crates on the docks at Keep Le Faye.

Travel to the candle maker , whose house is located west of the Catherby bank . Talk to him, and he'll tell you that he can make black candles , but only if you bring him a bucket of wax. Talk to him again with the bucket of wax, and he will give you the black candle.

Items required: Bread

Recommended: 2 Falador teleport tablets to get to and back from Taverley. Or use a games necklace and teleport to Burthorpe and run south.

The sword is kept by The Lady of the Lake . To find her, go south-east of Taverley to the lake; the Lady of the Lake will be in the peninsula within. Talk to her and she'll tell you that she has the sword; however, she wants you to go to the jewellery shop in Port Sarim first.

Along the way, grab a loaf of bread , then head to Port Sarim. You can talk to Veos to travel to Port Piscarilius , and run south to Hosidius to buy or steal bread. A pot of flour is purchasable in Wydin 's Food Store to bake your own.

As you open the door to the jewellery shop in Port Sarim , a beggar will approach you, asking you for some food to feed his starving family. Give him the loaf of bread. When you do, he will then change into the Lady of the Lake, who was testing the purity of your spirit. Satisfied, she'll give you the sword Excalibur .

Note: Do not click anything but "Click here to continue" in the dialogue box, not even "Talk to Lady of the Lake", until you get the sword. If you do, it will reset her dialogue and you will need another piece of bread.

Go to Varrock and head to the Zamorak chaos temple in the south-east corner of the city. "Check" the altar to find the words needed: " Snarthon Candtrick Termanto ". Make sure to click continue to complete the dialogue.

Note: You must go read the words on the altar, or you won't be able to progress further through the quest.

Breaking the Crystal [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Excalibur , black candle , tinderbox , bat bones , food , and a weapon (last 2 optional but recommended).

Now to free the wizard. First, head back to Camelot , and locate the magical symbol on the north-east side of the castle's garden, just inside the fence. Light your black candle and drop the bat bones ( be careful not to bury them ) in the circle. A demonic spirit named Thrantax the Mighty will appear, and you will be prompted to say the magic words: " Snarthon Candtrick Termanto ". If you get it right, the spirit will obey you.

Once the spirit is under your control, you'll make your request to free Merlin , and the spirit will do as you wish. Go back inside Camelot Castle, and climb up the south-east ladder to the very top of the south-east tower. At the top, Merlin will be imprisoned in a blue crystal. Use Excalibur on the crystal, and it will shatter.

Head back down and talk to King Arthur to finish the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

6 Quest points Excalibur (Required for Holy Grail quest.) Antique lamp rewarding 1,000 XP in any skill of at least level 20 and 5 Kudos from Historian Minas after completion of the quest Appointment with a title as a Honorary Knight of the Round Table .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Merlin's Crystal is required for the following:

Heroes' Quest Holy Grail

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

26 August 2020 ( update ) | Some grammatical errors have been corrected in the Merlin's Crystal quest.

14 March 2005 ( update ) | The location of the magic words has been changed from the Chaos Altar in level 12 Wilderness to the one found in Varrock.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Merlin's Crystal gives six quest points , the most of any single quest (other than the compound quest, Recipe for Disaster ), despite being relatively easy. Merlin can be seen in his workshop prior to being released from his crystal if another player enters the workshop to interact with him. Merlin can be seen trapped in the crystal even after completing the quest, this is during the same time as he's in his workshop. If the player has a hammer in their inventory they will attempt to smash the crystal using the hammer with no effect. Attempting to free Merlin without dealing with the spirit will result in message saying the crystal is being protected by a dark force. The player will keep asking the knights in Camelot Castle about finding Excalibur even after player has obtained it and freed Merlin from the crystal.

v • t • e Merlin's Crystal

NPCs | Merlin Arhein Renegade Knight Sir Mordred Morgan Le Faye The Lady of the Lake Beggar Candle maker Thrantax the Mighty Knights of the Round Table King Arthur Sir Gawain Sir Lancelot |  | Merlin Arhein Renegade Knight Sir Mordred Morgan Le Faye The Lady of the Lake Beggar Candle maker Thrantax the Mighty | Knights of the Round Table | King Arthur Sir Gawain Sir Lancelot

 | Merlin Arhein Renegade Knight Sir Mordred Morgan Le Faye The Lady of the Lake Beggar Candle maker Thrantax the Mighty

Knights of the Round Table | King Arthur Sir Gawain Sir Lancelot

Items | Bucket of wax Insect repellent Candles Candle Lit Black Lit black |  | Bucket of wax Insect repellent | Candles | Candle Lit Black Lit black

 | Bucket of wax Insect repellent

Candles | Candle Lit Black Lit black

Rewards | Excalibur

Locations | Camelot Catherby Keep Le Faye Port Sarim Taverley

Related | Quick guide Transcript