 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Misthalin Mystery (#129)





Released | 26 January 2017 ( Update )

Members | No

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Mod Jed , Mod TomH , Mod West , Mod Ash



Misthalin Mystery is a standalone quest , being the 130th quest in Old School RuneScape . It is the second quest to be made specifically for Old School RuneScape. After escaping from a house party in a spooky manor on a faraway island, Abigale seeks help for her injured boyfriend Hewey after being attacked by an unknown figure.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Abigale (or Hewey , who sits next to her) in the south-eastern corner of Lumbridge Swamp , near the fishing spots . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Short

Description | A woman cries as a man lays dying, desperately they beg you to stop a cryptic killer before their friends suffer a similar fate.

Requirements | None

Items required | Bucket (obtainable during quest) Tinderbox (obtainable during quest) Knife (obtainable during quest)

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Misthalin ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Abigale , south-east of Lumbridge Swamp, who will ask for the player's help after being attacked by an unknown figure on a nearby island. Board the rowboat south of them. Head through the gate, directly west is a fountain. Pick up a bucket next to the fountain. Head north of the fountain to trigger a cutscene, where Sid is murdered by the Killer . Use the bucket on the barrel of rainwater , and search the barrel to obtain a manor key .

Riddle 1 [ edit | edit source ]

Enter the manor, pick up the knife on the table , and attempt to open the door with the red topaz (pink) knob up north. This will trigger another cutscene, where Tayten is murdered by the killer hiding in the wardrobe. Before returning to the wardrobe, the killer slides a note under the door. Pick it up and read it (You must read it in-order to progress).

The riddle refers to a painting found in the adjacent room to the south-west. The painting is one with mountains, a blue river, and the sun on the horizon (on the east side of the room). Use the knife on it, and search it to find a ruby key . The doorknobs on the doors throughout the mansion will indicate the appropriate key that opens them.

Open the eastern door, and take a tinderbox from the shelves . Light all four unlit candles in the room, and you will get a message the room is warm enough to dry the fuse attached to the barrel of explosives . Then, use the tinderbox on the barrel next to the damaged wall. Exit the room to trigger the explosion.

Riddle 2 [ edit | edit source ]

Climb over the wall, and head north of the manor to trigger another cutscene, where Lacey is tied up. The Killer will ask her the name of the vampyre who lives in South Misthalin, but players will be given a choice; none of options matter, so pick any (the correct answer is actually Count Check , but if you say it, the Killer will kill Lacey for you interfering). She will die and the Killer will leave players another note . Pick it up and read it.

It's like music to my ears! The glorious sounds, spelling out your fate!

The riddle refers to the piano found in the north-eastern corner of the manor (music). You must enter the room through the damaged north-eastern wall. The Killer wants you dead - play the notes D-E-A-D on the piano, and search it to find an emerald key .

Riddle 3 [ edit | edit source ]

Return inside the manor by climbing the damaged east wall, and open the door with the emerald doorknob where the first note was found. Attempt to open the kitchen doors where Mandy is found, and another cutscene will occur where she is apparently killed by the Killer . Once again, he will leave players a third note . Pick it up and read it.

H ear at first these word s . E ach murder you witness helplessly from start to en d . A s you fail to solve the final letters of this qui z . R azor sharp like a gemstone is the blade of my knif e . T he last sound you hear will be your scream's ech o . H eed that I will have the final word in this thrille r .

The riddle refers to the unlit fireplace in the eastern room, go out to the south-east room (the damaged wall room) and enter the north door (HEARTH). Use the knife on the unlit fireplace to reveal a panel of switches inside the hidden compartment. The correct solution corresponds to the final letter of each sentence. Therefore, to open the compartment, click the following in order (sdzeor): Sapphire - Diamond - Zenyte - Emerald - Onyx - Ruby. Search the fireplace once more to find a sapphire key .

Showdown [ edit | edit source ]

Open the westernmost door, and a cutscene will occur where the player confronts the Killer .

He will hide in wardrobes and throw knives. The player can know which wardrobe he's in by looking for a brief black shadow surrounding the wardrobe. The player must push the mirror into the row/column of the wardrobe and then push it at least once towards the wardrobe in order to have the mirror facing the wardrobe to reflect the thrown knife back to the killer (otherwise the mirror will deflect the knife, but not back at the killer). You need to get the knife to bounce back at the killer a few times before proceeding on with the quest.

After defeating the Killer, players will discover that the killer was Abigale all along! She complains about how adventurers always take all the glory from her when she tries to help others every year. However, another killer appears, and reveals himself as Abigale's boyfriend, Hewey .

After basking in her glory, Abigale argues with Hewey over her selfishness, and in her anger, kills him. Pick up the killer's knife and attack Abigale.

As you attempt to leave the manor, Abigale attempts to kill you, but is stopped by Mandy , who survived due to her having dextrocardia, a rare condition where her heart is located on the right side.

Speak to her outside the mansion to collect the rewards which require 3 empty inventory slots. Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point Uncut ruby Uncut emerald Uncut sapphire 600 Crafting experience

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest. Click here for a transcript of the quest's journal entry.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

17 January 2019 ( update ) | The doors of the mansion now open and close as you walk past them.

4 January 2018 ( update ) | Fixed a spelling error within the Misthalin Mystery quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

This quest was originally released as the 2016 Halloween event , but was later released as a permanent quest after passing a poll. The poll to include Misthalin Mystery as a permanent quest passed by the narrowest margin in the history of Old School RuneScape , reaching the 75% threshold by only 10 votes. Players initially did not receive 600 Crafting experience upon completing the quest in an approximately 30 minute window before a hotfix was implemented. Players who completed the quest before the reward was added were told to speak with Mandy outside the mansion to receive the additional reward. The mansion in this quest is based on Draynor Manor . No music plays at all during the quest. If you were to travel to the island and then log out and back in, you would find that your music player is playing nothing at all. The quest plot is loosely based on the movie Scream and it includes several references: the characters in the quest are named similarly to those in the movie and their examine texts include further allusions; both satirise horror clichés; and the quote "What is your favourite scary quest?" is a play on the opening scene of the movie. There is a Bandos godsword within the room where Mandy is, although there is currently no way the player is able to reach the weapon. Strangely, the godsword still has the 'Take' option. If you wait long enough after the final encounter before trying to leave the room, both Killers will stand up. Attempting to talk to them will give you the message that they probably don't want to talk to you. The quote "I used to be an adventurer like you" is a reference to The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim and the subsequent meme . According to Mod Ash , the island is "still part of the Kingdom of Misthalin, but the bit they don't talk about, where even the guards daren't go". [1] When Sid is murdered, he says "I think I see the light", a reference to a song by Cat Stevens of the same name. The player says "Thank Saradomin" in relief at the end, this is inconsistent with other quests where the player uses Guthix in exclamation instead. Unlike normal fireplaces , the fireplaces in the mansion cannot be used to cook raw food.

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Misthalin Mystery

NPCs | Abigale Hewey Sid Killer Tayten Lacey Mandy

Items | Killer's knife Bandos godsword Notes 1 2 3 Keys Manor Ruby Emerald Sapphire |  | Killer's knife Bandos godsword | Notes | 1 2 3 | Keys | Manor Ruby Emerald Sapphire

 | Killer's knife Bandos godsword

Notes | 1 2 3

Keys | Manor Ruby Emerald Sapphire

Locations | Misthalin Manor

Scenery | Bucket

Related | Quick guide Transcript Journal