 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Monkey Madness I (#65)





Released | 6 December 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Gnome , #4

Lead developer(s) | Rahul V



Monkey Madness I is the fourth quest in the gnome quest series , and one of the most well-known quests in RuneScape. The quest brings the player to Ape Atoll , an island inhabited by civilised but unfriendly and high-level monkeys , in order to help Narnode Shareen track down his missing 10th Squad military unit.

A grandmaster-difficulty sequel to the quest called Monkey Madness II was released on 6 May 2016 .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to King Narnode Shareen in the Grand Tree . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Long

Description | The King of the northern Gnomes, Narnode Shareen, is once again in need of your help. He recently decided to send an envoy of his Royal Guard, the 10th squad, to oversee the decommissioning of the Gnome owned ship-building facilities on the eastern coast of Karamja . It has been quite some time since the 10th squad were dispatched and they have been deemed missing in action. It will be up to you, should you decide to help, to find out what fate befell the 10th squad and if possible, track them down. If only it were so simple. Sinister forces have begun to spread through the Gnome hierarchy and threaten to unleash an unknown terror upon the world. Far across the land, the fires of vengeance are being stoked once again. Can you unravel the mystery behind the deception? Can you separate the truth from the lies? Can you decide for yourself what is real and what is not?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: The Grand Tree Tree Gnome Village The ability to defeat a level 195 Jungle Demon

Items required | A gold bar Five empty inventory slots A ball of wool Monkey bones or corpse from Karamja (obtainable during quest) Five bananas (obtainable during quest))

Recommended | 65 Combat level 43+ Prayer highly recommended , as the player will be attacked by numerous hard-hitting melee enemies in multicombat Poison cures such as antipoison or antidote++ Energy-restoring items such as energy and stamina potions Prayer potions A knife for free healing, as there are pineapple plants around Ape Atoll High healing food A lockpick Weight-reducing clothing Emergency teleport (a ring of life works as well) Ardougne cloak 1 or Ardougne teleports A ring of dueling to bank quickly (the Ardougne cloak could be used instead, although it's somewhat further from a bank; the Battlefield of Khazard has a spirit tree, and the Gnome Stronghold has a bank and glider service) 200,000 coins (if skipping the puzzle)

Enemies to defeat | Jungle Demon (level 195)

Ironman concerns | 40 Smithing ( boostable ) (to make the gold bar if not dropped by a monster) or 33 Magic ( boostable ) (to telegrab a gold bar from Varrock west bank basement.) A gold bar is also a reward from The Digsite , Goblin Diplomacy , and Waterfall Quest

League notes | Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Introduction [ edit | edit source ]

Ape Atoll is one of the most dangerous areas in the game. All native creatures other than the level 5 birds will be aggressive towards you, regardless of your combat level , whenever you're not wearing the monkey greegree made later in the quest. Players can hug the coasts of Ape Atoll when moving to avoid the poisonous snakes and spiders; some snakes may still be encountered this way, but players can simply wait for them to move.

When going to the island, make sure to bring plenty of food , antipoison potions , and an emergency teleport , in addition to any other required items. Switching off Auto Retaliate and utilising protection prayers will greatly improve your chances of survival.

At any point, you can teleport or flee from Ape Atoll to restock items without losing your progress. To leave the island by boat, simply talk to Lumdo in the landing area to go from Ape Atoll back to Crash Island , and then talk to Waydar on Crash Island to go back to the Tree Gnome Stronghold . To resume the quest, talk to Daero on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of the Grand Tree to go back to the hangar, talk to Waydar in the hangar to go back to Crash Island, and finally, talk to Lumdo on Crash Island to return to Ape Atoll.

Monkey Business [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: three free inventory spaces.

Items suggested: some high-healing food , a form of poison protection , a lockpick , and a knife (to prevent the player from needing to bank by cutting the island's pineapple plants for food).

Chapter 1 [ edit | edit source ]

"In which our hero/heroine finds himself/herself/themself drawn back into Glough's web of deception and deceit."

Talk to King Narnode Shareen in the Tree Gnome Stronghold. He will tell you to investigate Glough 's old shipyard for any trace of the missing 10th Squad, and will give you the gnome royal seal . Bring this to Karamja (the "Gandius" option on the glider at the top of the Grand Tree will bring you nearby). If you do not have monkey bones (or a monkey corpse ), kill a monkey while on Karamja to obtain some.

After arriving, enter the shipyard north of the glider landing site and speak with G.L.O. Caranock , a gnome officer for the shipyard. He can be found in the building in the southern area, near the fence. He will act very suspiciously when spoken to, and advise you to return to the king.

Return to King Narnode, and he will give you Narnode's orders and tell you to speak to Daero , the new head tree guardian. Daero can be found on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of the Grand Tree, near Blurberry Bar . Go through all the chat options with Daero, and ensure you're ready for surviving Ape Atoll; when you're ready, tell him you're prepared to leave. He will then blindfold you and take you to an underground hangar.

Talk to Daero in the hangar and he will introduce you to Waydar , a gnome pilot. Waydar will task you with solving a "reinitialisation" puzzle, which is similar to the puzzle boxes from Treasure Trails . If you have done these puzzles before, the sliding puzzle will be easy to complete; if not, see below for the solution, or bring 200,000 coins and go to Glough , who resides in the same area he did during the Grand Tree quest.

Begin solving the puzzle by clicking on the panel to the south-east by the southern glider. Players can take some spare controls from the nearby crate to view the solution, or simply consult the image below.

Solve the sliding puzzle as follows (with the piece numbers counting from the top left corner, moving left to right):

After completing the puzzle, talk to Daero, and then Waydar. The two of you will depart and then land on the aptly named Crash Island , where the 10th Squad also crashed earlier. Ask the nearby sailor Lumdo to bring you to Ape Atoll , and he will refuse due to conflicting orders from his sergeant, Garkor ; since Lumbo says he will not take orders from you, talk to Waydar again instead (watch out for poisonous scorpions just to his left, and do not click "Travel", as this will bring you back to the Grand Tree). After speaking with Waydar, speak with Lumdo once more, and he will now agree to take you to Ape Atoll.

Chapter 2 [ edit | edit source ]

"In which our hero/heroine finds themselves engaging in severe quantities of monkey business."

Once on the Atoll, start going west, sticking to the southern coastline until you reach a mahogany tree. From here, run north, avoiding the poisonous snakes , scorpions , and jungle spiders . If you have the level to use it, activate Protect from Missiles as you travel north, as a volley of poisoned arrows will start pelting you as you come closer to the Ape Atoll gate. Once you get close enough to the entrance, you will be knocked out and placed in a prison.

After waking up, you will find yourself in a cell guarded by Trefaji and Aberab , two gorilla guards. Speak to Lumo , one of the captured 10th Squad members, and then prepare to make your escape.

Throughout this section and any time you are re-jailed, you will need to stay one square away from the northern cell wall (near the patrolling guards' path) if the guards are in front of it. If you're in their range, they will punch you for 10-20 damage. The guards follow a path, which is as follows: one of the guards will patrol the area twice, walking the length of the prison each time, and then leave to rotate shifts. Use the time that the guard moves away from your cell door to pick the lock. Once out, as the patrolling guard is walking out to switch with the one on standby, walk behind him to reach the exit. Be prepared to make several attempts.

After successfully making it out of the building, travel north of the jail and then east to find Karam , an assassin and member of the 10th Squad. Karam can be found in the bushes near the crafting shop ( ); he is mostly translucent and he can be difficult to spot, so look carefully. After finding him, speak with him to learn about the gnome mage Zooknock .

Refer to the map to the right for relevant locations during the quest. Be wary of all yellow dots, as they represent poisonous enemies (scorpions, snakes, and spiders), as well as aggressive monkey archers. When you are in the grass, the monkey archers do not fire, but it's still a good idea to activate Protect from Missiles as a precaution.

Once you're ready, travel south, past the large door, while staying in the tall jungle grass. Past the door, go around the castle counter-clockwise until you're at the southern end, and from here, run south-east, until you are between a white building and the castle. To the east of that building is Garkor , the Sergeant of the 10th Squad. Speak with him, and make sure to get all the way through the dialogue to the point where he tells you to go meet Zooknock in person.

Sprint west through the grass with Protect from Missiles on. Continue west (south of the buildings) in the grass until you reach the doorway to your north, marked on the map image above. Walk through the door to enter an enclosed area with a sleeping monkey guard, a banana crate, and a dentures crate.

When inside this house, stay on the dark brown ground along the walls , or you'll risk being sent back to jail. The spiders inside are poisonous, but their poison only hits 1 damage, so it might be helpful to save your anti-poisons for later in the quest. There are bananas in the south-western crates next to the ladder if the player needs a source of food.

From the entrance, head east and then north, and search the stacked crates towards the middle of the room to acquire monkey dentures . The sleeping guard is a non-threat so long as you don't talk to him; otherwise, he will call for guards.

After you have the dentures, search the south-easternmost crate and a prompt will appear, asking if you're ready to enter the area below. You will take 32.9% of your current hitpoints as fall damage if you drop down into the cavern when entering, so heal up if necessary before attempting it to avoid dying to the poisonous spiders. Your Agility level has a chance to negate this damage, so a summer pie or other Agility boost may help avoid fall damage during this section.

Once inside the cavern, travel to the north-west part of the area and search the crates to acquire the m'amulet mould . At this point, if you need to resupply, you can exit the city by going to the south-east corner of Marim , running past the guards and the gravedigger, and climbing up the ladder. After climbing up, jump off the bridge, and go back to the boat to Crash Island . You can also teleport out.

Items required: the monkey dentures , the m'amulet mould , and a gold bar .

Items suggested: 1-2 antipoison potions, 4+ energy , or stamina potions (or other energy-restoring items such as the explorer's ring ), 4+ prayer potions , some food , a plank (not necessary if traversing the traps correctly, but can be obtained during the quest anyway), and a one-click teleport .

Note: Strange fruit are handy for this section as they also cure poison. You will spend about 220% total run energy to traverse to the end of the tunnel at minimum weight, with no energy conserving mechanics; bring enough energy restore to accommodate.

It is highly recommended to teleport out and bank at this point. This section involves running past dozens of accurate monkey zombies and gorilla skeletons which can hit up to 7 and 12 respectively, all while inside a long and tight multicombat tunnel. Ironmen or other accounts who don't have access to energy or prayer potions are advised to use other prayer-boosting items , in order to reduce prayer drain. Refer to the table below for the various threats faced throughout the dungeon.

When you're ready, travel back to the southern part of Ape Atoll from the Gnome Hangar(Speak to Daero in the Grand Tree). Once you arrive, head west of Lumdo , and enter the tunnel ( ) below.

As soon as you enter, you'll see the screen will start to shake. Rumbling noises will play, and rocks will begin to fall; until you reach the tunnel, you are at constant risk of taking damage. Use the map to the right to navigate the dungeon.

Image | Name | Description | Action | Number

 | Monkey Zombie | Slow-moving zombie monkeys will attack you and hit up to 7 melee damage. | Protect from Melee | 30

 | Monkey Skeleton | Accurate skeleton monkeys will attack you and hit up to 12 melee damage. | Protect from Melee | 17

 | Floor spikes | Spikes will launch from the ground and deal rapid damage if stood on, equal to 7.5% of your current health rounded up. | Avoid the dot clusters on the ground | 30+

 | Rock trap | Two stalagmites will crash into you and deal rapid damage if you stand on the rock in the middle, equal to 20% of your current health rounded up. | Step on the square in front of the rock, and then run through by clicking the other side, to avoid all damage. A plank can also be placed on the flat rock to pass the trap. | 2

 | Falling rocks | Every 15 seconds, a pile of rocks will fall from the ceiling, dealing damage equal to 4% of your current health, rounded up. | Continuous walking or running will avoid all rock damage; do not stand in one place for more than a few seconds. | N/A

Even with consistent running, it will take at least three minutes of running to navigate the dungeon. Be prepared to drink your prayer and energy restoring potions, as well as food, when necessary.

At the end of the tunnel, you will find the gnomes Zooknock , Waymottin and Bunkwicket . Talk to Zooknock, and then use your m'amulet mould , gold bar , and monkey dentures on him and speak to him again. Make sure he gives you an enchanted bar before leaving the tunnel . Additionally, do not to use the m'amulet mould on Zooknock when you already have the enchanted bar , as he will keep the mould and you will have to obtain another. Teleport out, and bank if necessary. If you have not gone through all the dialogue with Garkor you will not be able to use the items on him.

Items required: the enchanted bar , the m'amulet mould , a ball of wool , and five free inventory slots for the bananas.

Items recommended: 1-2 antipoison potions, a one-click teleport, and some food.

Note : If you are going to do Recipe for Disaster , bring a ranged or magic weapon to kill a monkey guard and archer to save time later.

After restocking, return to Ape Atoll and continue north-west until you are placed in the jail cell again. Escape the cell as before, then travel east towards the temple.

You must now descend through the trapdoor to the east in the temple (see map). Activate Protect from Melee before entering the temple to block attacks from the powerful monkey guards .

Most of the guards can simply be run through, but the ones with beards near the trapdoor will act as walls, trapping you if they surround you. The easiest method to get past the bearded gorillas is to go upstairs, and then climb down the ladder on the east side to get close to the trapdoor. If you choose to walk to the ladder directly, make sure to wait until the guards walk away; players can hide in the north-east corner of the temple until there is enough room to descend. If you're surrounded by guards and can't move, teleport out immediately; if you're trapped near the ladder, go up the stairs and hop worlds. Note that the ladder near the trap door can only be climbed up from the EAST side.

Go down the trapdoor while still praying against melee. Ignore the monkey zombies (or kill one and pick up the bones if you want to do Recipe for Disaster later), and swiftly use the enchanted bar on the nearby wall of flames to make an unstrung monkey amulet . Either travel back up the ladder or find a safespot to get away from the foes, and use the ball of wool with the unstrung amulet to create the full m'speak amulet . Be aware that if you ascend the ladder, you will be attacked and can be trapped as before, so ensure Protect from Melee is active.

Head to the building west of the jail, making sure to sneak through the grass. You'll see a banana garden that has a Monkey Child in it, which is being patrolled by The Monkey's Aunt . The aunt follows a predetermined path, which loops around the wooden house by the garden; do not enter the garden when the monkey's aunt is present, or she will call for guards to arrest you. Note that if you're caught, you can sometimes escape without being arrested by quickly climbing up the ladder in the building nearby before the monkeys reach you. Do not speak to The Monkey's Uncle upstairs, as he will also call the guards.

Wait for the aunt to walk away, then speak to the monkey child, and tell him that you are his uncle. After he reveals that he is supposed to collect 20 bananas , search and pick five bananas from the nearby trees. The monkey cannot count, so you do not necessarily need 20, as long as you give him at least 5. Give him the bananas, then wait for a few moments in the corridor, and return to the monkey child when the aunt is away. Ask the child to lend you his monkey talisman .

You can obtain more than one talisman without dropping your current ones, so be sure to get an additional talisman for each greegree you want (four in total are needed for all quests; see below). You will need to speak to the monkey child again for each one, telling him you have lost the talisman, which will cause him to cry. Waiting for the aunt to pass by the child again will make the monkey child have another talisman available; Alternatively, you can switch worlds to potentially make the process go faster. If you talk to the child again before the aunt has passed by, you will get the message "The monkey child is too busy crying..."

Note that after you make your first greegree, talismans can be purchased from Tutab's Magical Market for 1000 coins . Tutab will not open his shop unless you are in monkey form.

For the Recipe for Disaster quest, you will need an additional three greegrees (four in total). Each of these requires one talisman, for a total of four talismans plus their respective monkey bones if making all talismans in one go. You will save yourself several trips if you obtain all of these materials before going to Zooknock in the next section. You must kill one of each of the following:

Type | Bones/corpse from | Quest

Karamjan monkey |  | Monkey Madness I

Ninja monkey |  | Freeing King Awowogei

Gorilla |  | Freeing King Awowogei

Zombie monkey |  | Freeing King Awowogei

Note : Some monkeys will have large and small variants; both will work for the quests, and merely change the size of your monkey form.

Once you have all of the required bones (or monkey corpse) and talismans, you must run through the tunnels again, bringing your items to Zooknock. Travel through the tunnel for a second time, and when you reach the end, use the monkey talisman and all monkey bones (or corpses) on Zooknock . Warning: the left-click option for all types of bones is buried, so make sure that you right-click on the items and select the "use" option.

After a brief delay and conversation, you will get a greegree corresponding to the bones you used on him. To make another greegree, you have to first talk to him again and ask him if he can make another. If you cancel the conversation accidentally, ask how to make the monkey talisman and it will resume. If for some reason this doesn't work, try the drop trick with your previous greegrees, and go through the dialogue again. After all desired greegrees are made, bank or stock up as needed, and return to Ape Atoll .

Chapter 3 [ edit | edit source ]

''In which our hero/heroine finds himself/herself contending with life as a monkey.''

Items required: Karamjan monkey greegree , m'speak amulet , 1 free inventory space, and a method of reaching Ardougne .

In this chapter, you will be required to speak with King Awowogei and retrieve a monkey from the Ardougne Zoo . If you need to bank, you can skip to retrieving the monkey in Ardougne, and then speak with Awowogei when you return to Ape Atoll (steps 1-3).

Wield the monkey greegree to become a monkey (currently only the Karamjan monkey greegree will work for transformation). In this form, you will not be approached or attacked by any of the monkeys or wildlife on the island, and you cannot engage in combat. As a monkey, return to Garkor and speak with him; then, with the m'speak amulet equipped, talk to the Elder Guard near Garkor. The guard will tell you to speak with Kruk .

From the guard, run west until you pass the main gate into Marim and have reached the Western shore of Ape Atoll (do not exit the gate). Head slightly south and follow the ground path up the western hill, then climb up the bamboo ladder at the top and cross the bamboo bridge. Climb down the ladder on the east side and speak to Kruk. After the conversation ends, he will conveniently take you back to King Awowogei .

Speak to Awowogei and offer an alliance, and he will ask you to rescue a monkey from the Ardougne Zoo . Make sure you have an open inventory space, and then teleport out and make your way to Ardougne.

Once in Ardougne , head to the south-west corner and enter the zoo. Wield the greegree inside the zoo area to become a monkey, and then speak to the Monkey minder , who will place you in the cage. Speak with a monkey (the only one with a "Talk" option), and it'll hop into your inventory; then, unequip the greegree and speak to the Monkey minder again. He will be confused and let you out.
You will now need to travel by foot to the Gnome Stronghold , before climbing up to the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] and talking to Daero to travel back to Ape Atoll as usual. While the monkey is in your inventory, you cannot use any form of teleportation (including random events ), as doing so will remove the monkey from your inventory, requiring you to re-obtain it from the zoo.

Return to Ape Atoll, and equip your greegree and amulet to speak with Awowogei again. (If you have spoken before, simply speak to the Elder Guard to be let in; if not, refer to the section above). The monkey will automatically leave your backpack after speaking to Awowogei, and the king will consider an alliance.

Speak with Garkor to begin Chapter 4.

Chapter 4, "The Final Battle" [ edit | edit source ]

Required items: Greegree , food, an antipoison, and combat equipment to defeat a level 195 Jungle Demon

Speak with Garkor one more time (as a human or monkey) to receive a 10th squad sigil . Do not equip it until you are ready for the final battle . Make sure to hold onto the sigil, as if you lose it, Garkor will send you to Waymottin at the end of Zooknock 's tunnel to reclaim it.

Bank in preparation for the Jungle Demon fight, and ensure you have full prayer points and health. When you are ready to fight, wear the sigil (you can do this from anywhere in RuneScape; no need to return to Ape Atoll), and you will be promptly teleported to the Jungle Demon's arena. Activate Protect from Magic before teleporting, and drink any necessary potions . You will lose your greegree when you teleport if your inventory is full.

Upon landing in the arena, you'll be confronted by a level 195 Jungle Demon which can hit up to 32 with both magic and melee. Protection prayers reduce all damage to zero; as such, if the player stands out of melee range, the fight can be completed by simply leaving on Protect from Magic and attacking the demon with Magic or Ranged. Note that the demon's melee attack can hit you even if you're two squares away, similar to a halberd; ensure you're three or more squares away to avoid it. Additionally, standing still once you are teleported to the arena will keep a distance between you and the Demon, who will not move until you do, although it will still attack you with Magic.

The 10th Squad gnomes will be nearby to assist with the fight, but you must deal the final blow to the demon yourself. If the gnomes deal the final strike, he will heal around 20 percent of his health (anywhere from 12%-25%); when the demon reaches 1 hitpoint, there will be a period where the gnomes stop attacking, so use this window to deal the final blow yourself.

The demon is weakest to Ranged, although Magic is fairly effective. Players should focus on their combat style with the highest damage. Note that the dwarf multicannon is effective against the demon, allowing pure accounts to kill him without gaining any Hitpoints experience; additionally, despite being from the jungle, he is not immune to poison. Melee is not recommended, but players looking to use melee combat will benefit from using rings of recoil, as the demon's melee attacks hit very accurately.
There is a safespot in the arena, across a bridge on the outside edge. When you run to the safespot, he will make his way to the bridge, but won't be able to fit over it, allowing you to easily attack him with Magic or Ranged while leaving up Protect from Magic.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Once the Jungle Demon is slain, speak to Garkor, who is indicated by an arrow. He will tell you to speak to Zooknock; speak to Zooknock nearby to get the option to be teleported back to Ape Atoll. If players decline the offer and stay, they are free to explore the banana plantation , but Zooknock will leave, requiring players to speak to Bonzara instead if they want to be teleported. He can be found in the crack at the base of the statue.

Warning : The gnomes will teleport you into the jungle on Ape Atoll. It is advised to simply teleport off of the island as quickly as possible; players wishing to stay on the island should immediately equip their greegree after being teleported by the gnomes.

Escape the island however you like, either through the main gates as a monkey, with any form of teleport, or by jumping off the bridge in the south-east part of the city, and go back to the Gnome Stronghold .

Speak with King Narnode in the Grand Tree to finish the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

The king will then redirect you to Daero for your training as a new 10th squad member, so go have a chat with Daero for the experience rewards.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 10,000 Coins 3 Diamonds Speaking to Daero after the quest gives the choice of either, 35,000 experience in Attack and Defence and 20,000 experience in Strength and Hitpoints OR 35,000 experience in Strength and Hitpoints and 20,000 experience in Attack and Defence . The skills you tell Daero you want to focus on will receive 35,000 XP each, and the others 20,000 each. The ability to buy and wield the Dragon scimitar . Full access to Ape Atoll, with the exception of the bank and javelin store, which are unlocked after Monkey Madness II .

After the quest, players retain the ability to turn into a monkey in Ape Atoll & Ardougne Zoo , using the Monkey greegree . The Jungle Demon can also now be fought in the Nightmare Zone . Note: while it was previously impossible to return to Ape Atoll after quest completion without receiving experience from Daero, an update in November 2022 now allows the training to be ignored before returning.

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Monkey Madness I is required for the following:

Recipe for Disaster/Freeing King Awowogei Monkey Madness II

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Anywhere | Unlocked at Marim 's main gate on Ape Atoll . | 

Find My Way | Unlocked in the Ape Atoll Dungeon | 

Island Life | Unlocked on Ape Atoll | 

Marooned | Unlocked on Crash Island | 

Monkey Madness | Unlocked in Marim | 

Showdown | Unlocked in the boss fight at the end of the quest | 

Suspicious | Unlocked during cutscenes | 

Technology | Unlocked in the gnome glider hangar | 

Temple | Unlocked in Temple of Marimbo dungeon | 

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

30 November 2022 ( update ) | Players who have completed Monkey Madness I may now return to Ape Atoll to complete Monkey Madness II without accepting Daero’s training. They will have to complete both Duke and Daero’s training to use Heavy Ballistae.

10 May 2016 — 28 July 2016 | The quest was renamed from Monkey Madness to Monkey Madness I .

26 November 2015 ( update ) | Typo correction: "to" was used rather than "too" in Monkey Madness.

2 July 2015 ( update | poll ) | Added a fairy ring midway through the Ape Atoll agility course . Using this fairy ring requires completion of Monkey Madness and Daero's training .

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If you talk to Zeke , the scimitar seller of Al Kharid , and ask him for a Dragon scimitar , he will respond by saying, "The banana-brained nitwits who make them would never sell any to me. Seriously, you'll be a monkey's uncle before you hold a Dragon Scimitar," referencing when you pretend to be a monkey's uncle to obtain the monkey talisman . If you have started Fairytale II - Cure a Queen , completing this quest and receiving Daero's training unlocks a new fairy ring location in the Ape Atoll agility course . To leave the small area where the fairy ring is located, you will need a ninja greegree , as well as 48 Agility to continue through the remainder of the course. If you wear a M'speak amulet and listen to the enchanted bar , it says "I'm stuck in this horrible gold bar!" The chapter cards and cut scenes in this quest are references to the adventure game series Monkey Island . Upon first talking to Awowogei , Uwogo says to "never trust a northern monkey". This is about the friendly rivalry between the north and the south within the UK (Northern Monkeys, Southern Fairies). You can pick up the Karamjan monkey King Awowogei requests after bringing him to the island. If a player picks up the monkey delivered to King Awowogei after bringing him to the king, travels to Karamja by foot, and drops the monkey, the player will receive their level in Thieving experience multiplied by two. Karam seems to be a reference to Kalam Mekhar (a character from Steven Erikson's Malazan book of the Fallen) and the 10th squad in general could be a reference to the Bridgeburners 9th squad from the same series. This entire quest was created by one intern at Jagex during a summer internship. If you give a monkey talisman back to the monkey child, he will be grateful and hug you.

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Monkey Madness I

NPCs | Monkeys Aberab Awowogei Bonzara Elder Guard Ardougne Zoo monkey Monkey Child Muruwoi Sleeping Monkey The Monkey's Aunt Trefaji Uwogo Gnomes and people Blurberry Daero G.L.O. Caranock King Narnode Shareen Monkey minder Waydar 10th Squad Bunkdo Bunkwicket Carado Garkor Karam Lumdo Lumo Waymottin Zooknock | Monkeys | Aberab Awowogei Bonzara Elder Guard Ardougne Zoo monkey Monkey Child Muruwoi Sleeping Monkey The Monkey's Aunt Trefaji Uwogo | Gnomes and people | Blurberry Daero G.L.O. Caranock King Narnode Shareen Monkey minder Waydar | 10th Squad | Bunkdo Bunkwicket Carado Garkor Karam Lumdo Lumo Waymottin Zooknock

Monkeys | Aberab Awowogei Bonzara Elder Guard Ardougne Zoo monkey Monkey Child Muruwoi Sleeping Monkey The Monkey's Aunt Trefaji Uwogo

Gnomes and people | Blurberry Daero G.L.O. Caranock King Narnode Shareen Monkey minder Waydar

10th Squad | Bunkdo Bunkwicket Carado Garkor Karam Lumdo Lumo Waymottin Zooknock

Items | 10th squad sigil Banana stew Enchanted bar Eye of gnome Gnome royal seal M'amulet mould Monkey Monkey bar Monkey dentures Monkey greegree Monkey nuts Monkey talisman M'speak amulet (unstrung) M'speak amulet Narnode's orders Spare controls

Locations | Grand Tree Shipyard Crash Island Ape Atoll ( Dungeon ) Ardougne Zoo

Music | Anywhere Find My Way Island Life Marooned Monkey Madness Showdown Suspicious Technology Temple

Related | Quick guide Plot synopsis