 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Mountain Daughter (#73)





Released | 7 March 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Vincent Van M



Mountain Daughter is a quest in the Fremennik quest series . In the quest, the player must assist the chieftain of a mountain camp in the mountains east of Rellekka in finding his daughter.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Hamal the Chieftain in the Mountain Camp east of Rellekka . To get in, take the path north of the Golden Apple Tree and use a rope on the boulder behind the guard (see below for more details). Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | Ages ago, a small tribe of people split off from the Fremennik in Rellekka and decided to inhabit the mountains to the east of town. There they lived as nomads for many years, but now the chieftain of the camp has lost his daughter and will not move on before she has been found. Has she run away, has she been eaten by trolls, or is there something more sinister going on? Only you can find out.

Requirements | 20 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) [1] The ability to defeat a level 70 monster (can be safespotted )

Items required | Rope Pickaxe Axe Plank Spade Staff or a pole (obtainable during the quest, Dramen Staff does not work, but elemental staves and Lunar staff do work) Gloves (excluding: Slayer , Mystic , Ranger , Moonclan , Lunar , vambraces , and random event apparel)

Recommended | 40 Combat level Combat equipment Stamina or energy potions Weight-reducing clothing Fast travel to the White Wolf Mountain ( Gnome Glider or alternatively a Camelot teleport ) Fast travel to the Mountain Camp ( Slayer Ring or Fairy Rings to A J R and head north, or Camelot Teleport ) Fast travel to Rellekka ( Enchanted lyre or Fremennik sea boots , or House teleport if your house is in Rellekka) 8 free inventory spaces

Enemies to defeat | The Kendal (level 70)

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Mountain Camp [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to the Mountain Camp east of Rellekka and north-east of the Golden Apple Tree . To get to that area, you can use the enchanted lyre and head east; walk north from Seers' Village or use the fairy ring code A J R and then go north a bit; or if your house is in Rellekka, teleport to your house and go east, or by using Fremennik sea boots head east.

Start up the path to the Mountain Camp , and attempt to climb over the rockslide. The guard says you are not welcome and does not allow you to pass. Just a bit to the left is another, narrow path. Follow it, and use your rope on the boulder that says "push boulder" and you will automatically climb down.

Note: you can skip trying to climb the initial rockslide and go directly to the boulder on the second path.

Hamal's daughter [ edit | edit source ]

Follow the path into the village, enter the longhouse to the east, and speak to Hamal the Chieftain by asking, "Why is everyone so hostile?" , to begin the quest. Speaking of his tribe, Hamal tells you that they are citizens of Rellekka , although due to differences they have moved out to become closer to nature, disagreeing with the Fremennik tradition of choosing their tools over skill. The chieftain tells you about his missing daughter and after much arguing against "employing" an outerlander, he eventually allows you to search for her. From this point on, you can enter the camp by climbing over the rockslide.

Head south of Hamal's house, and take some mud from the roots along the edge of the bubbling mud pond.

If you did not bring a staff, go north of Hamal's house to Jokul 's place and pick up the pole .

Crisis [ edit | edit source ]

Just north of Hamal's tent are mountain goats . Follow the path leading west along the Shining pool . Follow it until you reach a tall tree by the geysers above the path you came up.

Use the mud you gathered on the tall tree to prevent yourself from slipping. Climb the tall tree, crawl along its branch, and jump down to the little island. Use your pole or staff on the clump of rocks to pole-vault over them. Then use the plank to cross the flat stone. On one of the bubbles rising from the pool, select "Listen-to Shining pool".

You hear the voice of the spirit of the chieftain's daughter Asleif Hamalsdotter , who is dead. She asks you to make peace between her tribe and Rellekka and to also find a new food source for the camp. Agree to help her. To return to shore, use a plank on the flat stone. You can do her two tasks in either order.

Making peace [ edit | edit source ]

Return to the Mountain Camp , and talk to Hamal the Chieftain . Ask about the people of Rellekka , and he tells you that he sent a villager named Svidi to initiate a simple trade route, but he hasn't yet returned. Head to the rockslide that first blocked your entrance to the Mountain Camp. Climb over it, and go into the forest north-west of the rockslide, outside the entrance to Keldagrim. Locate and speak with Svidi. To find Svidi, go to the black unicorns and look for a fast moving yellow dot on your mini map between the fence shortcut and the south fence turn. you must run to catch him once spotted.

He will tell you he's afraid of the Fremennik in Rellekka and thinks that they might kill him. Offer to help him enter Rellekka and he agrees if you can secure a promise from the chieftain that he will be safe.

Head to Rellekka, and talk to Brundt the Chieftain in the longhall. He will give you a safety guarantee , promising not to hurt Svidi if you can retrieve a relic - an ancient rock - that the Mountain Camp tribe stole from Rellekka long ago.

Return to the Mountain Camp, and enter the large tent south-west of Hamal the Chieftain. If you want, you can first talk to Hamal, but he refuses to let you have the rock. Right-click to use your pickaxe on the Ancient rock located in the southern tent to acquire half a rock . If you're wielding your pickaxe , you will have to right-click on the ancient rock, as it cannot be mined using left-click . Take this back to Rellekka, and talk to Brundt the Chieftain, who will agree to share the rock and give you the guarantee of safe passage. Take the guarantee to Svidi to initiate peace talks between the two tribes.

Note: Once back in Rellekka with your pickaxe, now may be a good time to run north to the mine and gather some coal for the Fremennik Diary task.  Players will need to have completed The Fremennik Trials to enter the mine.

Finding food [ edit | edit source ]

Return again to the Mountain Camp and speak with Hamal , and then talk to Jokul , who is in the tent north of Hamal, looking after his mountain goats . He will tell you that he thinks the members of the Mountain Camp could survive if the seed of a White pearl fruit, a hardy plant which can grow anywhere, were planted in the area.

Travel to the peak of White Wolf Mountain and look for thorny bushes near the gnome glider . If you have completed The Grand Tree quest , you may use a ring of dueling to teleport to the Emir's Arena which is near a gnome glider. Head west from the Emir's Arena to the glider, then fly to the mountains. Alternatively, you may use a Camelot Teleport and walk up the mountain. Put on your gloves (4 damage will be inflicted if not wearing any, and you won't get the fruit seed), pick a White pearl fruit off the thorny bushes and eat it. You will automatically spit out the White pearl seed .

Go back to the Mountain Camp and give the White pearl seed to Hamal the Chieftain, who accepts your solution for feeding the tribe.

The Kendal [ edit | edit source ]

After you've completed both tasks, go back to the shining pool and speak to Asleif again (make sure to pole vault, and use your plank on the flat stone). She asks you to convince her father that she is really dead. She was attacked by a creature ( the Kendal ) and dragged off nearby to the north where she was killed. Leave the island and head to the north side of the pool (alternatively, cross the gap without using the plank; you'll end up on the north side). Follow the path east to a cave blocked by dead trees. Chop down the ones that block your path with an axe until you reach a cave entrance (if you face problems chopping down the trees, stand to the west side of the first tree when chopping it down to walk over the stump).

Enter the cave and make your way to the large cavern. You find the Kendal as well as numerous corpses near a central pillar. Talk to the Kendal, and when it asks who you are, say, "It's just me, no one special", and then "You mean a sacrifice?". The Kendal tells you that it is the god of the northern lands.

Say that he actually looks like a man in a bearsuit, to which he finally admits. After you blow his cover, he also confesses to killing Asleif more than ten years ago. Humbly request her remains, to which he refuses as he cannot let anyone know his true identity. Threaten to kill him, and he'll attack you. He has 50 hitpoints and a combat level of 70, and all damage can be blocked if you use the Protect from Melee Prayer . If you are using Ranged or Magic , you can find a safespot around the skeletons to attack him.

Once he dies, a Bearhead mask will appear in your inventory . Take Asleif's corpse, which lies in the south-eastern corner of the pillars ( corpse of woman ), and exit the cave. Cut your way back out of the dead trees and head back to Hamal the Chieftain . Tell him what you learned and show him his daughter's corpse.

The Kendal's cave. The safespot for the Kendal.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Hamal asks you to give her a proper burial by building a grave on the island at the centre of the pool topped with a cairn, symbolising the longboats used to cross the seas, and some of her possessions. He tells you perhaps Ragnar has one of her possessions for you to use. On your way up, gather five muddy rocks from the mountain goat pen. The rocks respawn quickly, so it's possible just to pick up the same rock multiple times.

Follow the path up to Ragnar (he is just past the tall tree), and speak with him. He gives you Asleif's necklace , which he had intended to give her as a gift. Climb up the tall tree, pole-vault the clump of rocks, and use the plank on the flat stones to make your way back to the small island. Bury the corpse there; you will  go to the designated burial location. Use the muddy rocks on the burial mound to create Asleif's burial cairn .

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 2,000 Prayer experience 1,000 Attack experience The Bearhead The ability to pass into the Mountain Camp over the rockslide

Unlocks:

The Kendal accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Mountain Daughter is required for the following:

The Fremennik Exiles

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Settlement | Unlocked upon approaching the Mountain Camp. | 

Cave of Beasts | Unlocked in the Kendal's cave north of the Mountain Camp. | 

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

 | Congratulations, quest complete!

The song that plays upon completion of the quest.



When you complete the quest, instead of hearing the normal quest complete music, the game plays Asleif's singing and you receive a message saying "You think you can hear a soft 'thank you' as the singing quietens down." Additionally, when Asleif asks you to make peace between her tribe and Rellekka, you can ask if this involves an anthem . This reference is available before beginning Throne of Miscellania , however. The Kendal resembles, in both name and appearance, the monster Grendel from the famous old English poem Beowulf . When you first talk to The Kendal, he quotes the Cave of Wonders guardian from Aladdin , "Who dares disturb my slumber?" When talking to The Kendal, you can ask him what he is doing in "that stupid bear suit", to which he will respond with the question "What are you doing in that stupid set of armour?" This is a reference to the movie Donnie Darko where Donnie asks the main antagonist, "Why are you wearing that stupid bunny suit?" To which he responds, "Why are you wearing that stupid man suit?" The ancient rock story-line appears to be a telling of the story of the Stone of Scone, which was stolen by the English in 1296 and then split in-two when an attempt was made to return the stone to Scotland in 1950.

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Mountain Daughter

NPCs | Hamal the Chieftain Ragnar Asleif Hamalsdotter Svidi Brundt the Chieftain Jokul Guard Camp dweller Enemies The Kendal |  | Hamal the Chieftain Ragnar Asleif Hamalsdotter Svidi Brundt the Chieftain Jokul Guard Camp dweller | Enemies | The Kendal

 | Hamal the Chieftain Ragnar Asleif Hamalsdotter Svidi Brundt the Chieftain Jokul Guard Camp dweller

Enemies | The Kendal

Items | Mud Safety guarantee Half a rock White pearl White pearl seed Bearhead Corpse of woman Muddy rock Pole Broken pole Asleif's necklace

Scenery | Shining pool Dead tree Tree stump Burial cairn Boulder

Locations | Mountain Camp Shining pool

Music | Cave of Beasts Settlement

Related | Quick guide Transcript