 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Mourning's End Part II (#89)





Released | 17 October 2005 ( Update )

Also called | MEP2

Members | Yes

Quest series | Elf , #7

Lead developer(s) | Dylan C, Graham B



Mourning's End Part II (The Temple of Light) , is the seventh quest in the Elf quest series . This quest is often described as challenging by players who have completed it due to it having a very difficult quest puzzle while being under attack by medium-level monsters.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Arianwyn in Lletya . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Long

Description | This chapter of the quest takes our hero deep under the mountains of Arandar to put a stop to the evil plans of the mourners.
If our hero is to succeed, they must solve one of the most complicated puzzles in all of Gielinor.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Mourning's End Part I Roving Elves Regicide Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City Waterfall Quest Big Chompy Bird Hunting Sheep Herder

Items required | Full mourner clothes A chisel (one can be found in the house south of the Mourner HQ) A death talisman / tiara , catalytic talisman / tiara , Runecraft cape or 50 junk items Rope

Recommended | 65+ Combat level 75+ Agility for lesser chances of failing obstacles (91 to never fail) [1] 43+ Prayer for Protect from Melee against the shadows Teleports to West Ardougne : Minigames teleport to Rat Pits (Ardougne) available every 20 minutes after completion of Ratcatchers quest West Ardougne Teleport or its tablet Ardougne Teleport or its tablet A teleport crystal Lots of food , prayer potions , and stamina potions . Summer pies provide an excellent source of food, since they boost 5 Agility levels, restore 10% run energy, and give 22 health per pie. Alternatively, stackable purple sweets , which restore 10% run energy and 2 health, may be used. High Prayer bonus armour (e.g. proselyte or initiate armour , a god book , a holy symbol , a broodoo shield ). A melee weapon that provides a Prayer bonus, such as any mace, Godsword , Zamorakian hasta , ancient mace , silver sickle (b) , crozier , dragon mace , Void Knight mace , the Ivandis flail , blisterwood flail , or Wolfbane . The ancient mace 's special attack can be useful as it refills prayer points. The Ivandis and blisterwood flails weigh 0 kg. One pure essence to craft a Death rune once in the Death Altar at the end of the quest (requires 65 Runecraft ( boostable ) , needed for hard Ardougne Diary ), can be done easier via the Abyss later but might save time for Ultimate or Hardcore Ironmen

Enemies to defeat | None (but powerful level 73 shadows are aggressive to players inside the temple)

Ironman concerns | Optional: 90 Slayer to kill dark beasts for a death talisman or completion of Temple of the Eye to be able to participate in Guardians of the Rift , where a catalytic talisman may be obtained randomly from the rewards guardian .

League notes | Unlocking Tirannwn ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Entering the temple [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Full mourner gear , chisel , three free inventory spaces for quest items. Recommended: Elf teleport crystal , teleport to West Ardougne , food and armour / prayer potions to run past high level monsters

Begin by speaking to Arianwyn in Lletya . He will tell you to go and stop the mourners from excavating under West Ardougne , and that you need a key from Essyllt to enter the excavation site.

Next, put on your full mourner gear . Bring a teleport crystal , and some food if you have low Defence or do not have 43 Prayer for Protect from Melee . Also, bring a chisel . Go to the basement of the Mourner HQ in West Ardougne, and talk to Essyllt .

He will give you a new key to the nearby tunnels that they dug to the Temple of Light . He will ask you to find the digging team. Leave the head mourner's room and open the door on the west wall. Go into the tunnel. You will see level 182 Dark beasts .

Note: Ironmen can receive a catalytic talisman as a reward from the Guardians of the Rift minigame or a death talisman from killing the dark beasts (requiring 90 Slayer ), which will save a lot of time further on in the quest.

Run past them to the west whilst praying Protect from Melee, to reach the temple entrance. You'll see a cutscene showing the digging team; shortly thereafter, you may be attacked by level 73 shadows . Search the corpse of the guard slumped against the northern wall to get Edern's Journal .

From there, go west and enter the Temple of Light .

Teleport to Lletya, and go back to Arianwyn. He will summon Eluned , who will enchant the black crystal in your inventory into a newly made crystal . It will be used at the end of the quest. Talk to Arianwyn again; then, you will need to prepare for a long and potentially frustrating puzzle. If you end up losing your crystal you can acquire a new one from Arianwyn.

The light puzzles [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Full mourner gear , the new key , one rope . If you're planning to complete the puzzles in a single trip, bring a catalytic talisman / catalytic tiara / death talisman / death tiara , and the newly made crystal too. One teleport out. Two or more free inventory spaces. Recommended equipment: Weight-reducing clothing , high Prayer bonus gear and a weapon; or high-defence armour and a weapon Recommended items: Prayer potions (highly recommended), stamina potions , food , summer pies / agility potions , pure essence (needed for Hard Ardougne Diary if you have 65 Runecraft )

If you want to attempt the puzzle in one trip, bring the mourner clothing , the new key , the crystal , and a catalytic/death talisman as well as your rope. As you progress through the puzzle you will need an increasing number of inventory spaces free in order to hold the mirrors and crystals which are used in the puzzle, which you will have naturally as you consume prayer potions and food. Alternatively, if you are lacking inventory space, you can pick up only some of the mirrors and crystals and go back and get more. You will need 4 inventory spaces for the first steps of the puzzle, increasing to 13 inventory spaces open for the last step of the puzzle. You may freely bank at any time, especially between the completion of each puzzle. If you leave in the middle of a puzzle, the puzzle will be unchanged when you return. However, you cannot bank the mirrors and crystals received in the temple, so it is not recommended.

If you're having trouble rotating mirrors while under attack, you can press 1 to rotate the mirror as soon as the dialogue comes up, if on PC—this should give you one or two rotation attempts between each attack.

The Death Altar [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: a death talisman / death tiara / catalytic talisman / catalytic tiara OR the 50 items below (suggested only for Ironmen due to the tediousness of this). If you bring the death talisman, take the newly made crystal too.

Items recommended: Ardougne Teleport runes or tablets if planning to exchange items for a death talisman, as you will need to make multiple trips from the bank to the altar.

After you go through the final door, talk to the dwarf Thorgel . You will ask each other how you got to the altar, and he will reveal there is a passage from the Underground Pass created by him and his companions. You will ask if he knows Klank , after which he will realise you are the one who had slain Iban . Because of this, he agrees to trade you a death talisman in return for some supplies.

He gives you an item list that tells you what you need to get him:

You will need to give these items in more than one trip. Luckily, these items are all easily obtained and most players likely have many of them stored in their bank already. If returning to the bank in East Ardougne and running back to the altar through the mourner's headquarters, you will need to keep your mourner's outfit and new key for each trip. However, you should not need any other supplies, as these trips should be quick enough not to drain your prayer points to 0, and you can pray at the altar on the way back to West Ardougne each time you refill your inventory. If you get rid of Thorgel's list to save an inventory slot, you can ask him for another.

Warning : If you teleport out, make sure you turn the mirror towards the cyan door first! Otherwise, you'll lock yourself out and you'll have to go through the Underground Pass and enter the Temple of Light via the tunnel inside the dwarf camp. The entry at the dwarf camp is most easily reached from Lletya , which is fairly close to the elven land entrance to the Underground Pass; doing the Underground Pass in reverse to get to the dwarf village is a lot easier. To do this, enter the dungeon first on the elven side, down the well then down to the dwarf camp. The tunnel is located directly south of the main building. It is not marked on the minimap, so it is rather difficult to see.

On your final trip, make sure to bring the newly made crystal and teleport crystal instead of an Ardougne teleport.

The power of death [ edit | edit source ]

Use your catalytic talisman or death talisman on the Death Altar (or equip the tiara equivalents) then use the newly made crystal that Eluned repaired for you on it to charge it. (If you have 65+ Runecraft , and you brought a pure essence, make a death rune as well, to complete that step of the hard Ardougne Diary .) Exit the Death Altar, and then exit the final chamber and make your way to the black crystal that you observed at the beginning of the quest. Use this charged crystal on the black crystal. This will stop people from entering the temple for another thousand years! Go back to Lletya , and talk to Arianwyn for your reward.

Congratulations! Quest Complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 60,000 Agility experience A crystal trinket , which allows you to enter the Temple of Light again after the quest Access to the Death Altar Death talismans can be obtained via Guardians of the Rift Death runes can now be crafted during Guardians of the Rift Access to Dark Beasts Dark Beasts teleport enabled in Slayer Rings menu

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Mourning's End Part II is required for the following:

Song of the Elves Hard Ardougne Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Temple of Light | Unlocked inside the Temple of Light . | 

La Mort | Unlocked at the Death Altar . | 

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

8 February 2023 ( update | poll ) | The Catalytic tiara may now be used to access the Death Altar to skip completing Thorgel 's item list .

30 November 2022 ( update | poll ) | The experience rewarded for Agility skill was increased from 20,000 to 60,000.

25 July 2019 ( update ) | Players can now equip weapons, shields and amulets when entering Mourner HQ. The Head mourner was replaced with Essyllt . The Colour wheel was removed from the dead guard at the entrance of the Temple of Light. A new dead guard with the Colour wheel and Scrawled notes was added by the crystal dispenser. The light pillar interface was optimised to reduce the number of clicks required to place mirrors.

25 February 2016 ( update ) | The chests in the Temple of Light now ensure you have enough inventory space to take their contents.

Date unknown | The quest was renamed from "Mourning's Ends Part II" to "Mourning's End Part II".

28 November - 18 December 2006 | The quest was renamed from "Mourning's Ends Part 2" to "Mourning's Ends Part II".

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

According to Mod Mark during the Mythbusters session in RuneFest 2019 , he and Mod Dylan had initially designed the Temple of Light puzzle in a drunken stupor. [2] The quest completion scroll displays an image of the cyan crystal , which is also the only crystal remaining after the puzzle is completed. If you ask Thorgel why he needs one of the three keys he asks you for, he will reply " Pretty please with a Blood Talisman on top?! ", then you would say " A Blood Talisman?! ", and then Thorgel would reply " Oops! I meant 'Death Talisman'! " This was a hint to the blood talisman which was eventually released as a reward item from the Guardians of the Rift minigame on 23 March 2022 .

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Mourning's End Part II

NPCs | Arianwyn Essyllt Thorgel Eluned Guard (Nissyen Edern) Slave Shadow

Items | Colour wheel Scrawled notes Hand mirror New key Edern's journal Item list Death talisman Mourner gear Mask Top Trousers Gloves Boots Cloak Crystals Trinket Newly made Blue Blackened Cyan Yellow Fractured Unobtainable Red crystal Green crystal Magenta crystal |  | Colour wheel Scrawled notes Hand mirror New key Edern's journal Item list Death talisman | Mourner gear | Mask Top Trousers Gloves Boots Cloak | Crystals | Trinket Newly made Blue Blackened Cyan Yellow Fractured | Unobtainable | Red crystal Green crystal Magenta crystal

 | Colour wheel Scrawled notes Hand mirror New key Edern's journal Item list Death talisman

Mourner gear | Mask Top Trousers Gloves Boots Cloak

Crystals | Trinket Newly made Blue Blackened Cyan Yellow Fractured

Unobtainable | Red crystal Green crystal Magenta crystal

Scenery | Light door Wall support Trap Rope Low wall Ladder

Locations | West Ardougne Mourner Headquarters Mourner Tunnels Temple of Light Death Altar

Music | La Mort Temple of Light

Related | Quick guide Transcript