 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Mourning's End Part I (#84)





Released | 19 July 2005 ( Update )

Also called | ME1, MEP1

Members | Yes

Quest series | Elf , #6

Lead developer(s) | Dylan C



Mourning's End Part I is a quest in the elf quest series , continuing directly where Roving Elves left off. The player travels to Lletya , the hideout of the rebel elves, to assist their leader Arianwyn in bringing down the Iorwerth clan. The first half of this two-part quest revolves around infiltrating their base in West Ardougne .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Eluned inside the elven woods of Isafdar . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Medium

Description | It seems at last Arianwyn has need of your skills.
He believes there is more to the Mourners than meets the eye and he wishes for you to find out just what they're up to. Can you gain the trust of the Mourners?

Requirements | 60 Ranged ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 50 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) The ability to defeat a level 11 enemy with your combat stats set to 20 each. Completion of the following quests: Roving Elves Regicide Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City Waterfall Quest Big Chompy Bird Hunting Sheep Herder

Items required | Bear fur (can be obtained during the quest near Jorral's Outpost) 2 silk Each of these dyes : red , yellow , green , and blue (can be bought during the quest for 6 coins each). You may want to bring additional dyes to collect multiple coloured toads in case you miss when firing the device. Bucket of water (can be bought from the general store in LLetya during the quest, and used on the well) Feather Rotten apple ( must be the rotten apple on the ground north of the Mourner Headquarters in West Ardougne , obtainable during the quest) Toad crunchies or Premade t'd crunch Magic logs Leather Ogre bellows (obtainable during the quest) Barrel of naphtha , or 5-9 coal to make one 7 empty inventory spaces for the Mourner gear

Recommended | 60 Combat level Weapon Food if your combat level is low Ardougne or West Ardougne teleport tablets (runes may be inconvenient as your Magic will be lowered by the Mourner ) Ring of dueling to reset drained stats at the Pool of Refreshment in the Ferox Enclave Necklace of passage for faster access to Arandar , via the Outpost Fast travel to Taverley ( House teleport , Balloon network , Falador teleport ) Fast travel to Feldip Hills ( Feldip hills teleport , Gnome glider , Fairy rings to A K S or the Eagle transport system to the jungle) Fast travel to Rimmington , if you have not yet made a barrel of naphtha ( Rimmington teleport or Teleport to House if it located there, Skills necklace to the Crafting Guild or a Falador teleport )

Enemies to defeat | Mourner (level 11) (will decrease all combat skills to 20, including Hitpoints )

Ironman concerns | 75 Woodcutting ( boostable ) for Magic log (if chopping) Magic logs can also be obtained from the Reward Cart after defeating the Wintertodt skilling boss, requiring 50 Firemaking ( not boostable ) to participate.

League notes | Unlocking Tirannwn ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting the quest [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Eluned , who teleports between three different locations. Refer to the map on the Roving Elves quest page for these locations. You may travel to any of them and then switch worlds to find her.

She will lead you to the rebel elven outpost Lletya . Talk to Arianwyn , the leader of the elves in this outpost. He will reveal to you that the mourners in West Ardougne are really Iorwerth elves from Prifddinas , and that it is your job to uncover their evil plot. He will tell that these mourners frequently cross the overpass of Arandar between the elven capital and West Ardougne, allowing you to easily ambush one there. Arianwyn then gives you a teleport crystal that allows you to teleport back to Lletya.

This crystal contains charges, with one being consumed per teleportation. It starts with four charges. If the crystal is used efficiently, this will be enough teleports for both this quest and Part II . Eluned is able to grant it three charges whenever it becomes uncharged, or five charges if the Hard Western Provinces Diary is completed. She charges a maximum of 750 coins for this service, although you would have to find her again first.

Obtaining mourner gear [ edit | edit source ]

Head towards the entrance of Arandar . The fastest way is by travelling with the necklace of passage to the Outpost , then walking westwards. There, kill a level-11 mourner to obtain their outfit. Right before you land your first hit, they will always attempt to throw a potion that reduces your combat stats to 20, including your Hitpoints . Stats reduced this way cannot be instantly restored with a potion. However, they may be restored with the pool of refreshment in the Ferox Enclave or the fancy or ornate rejuvenation pool in the player-owned house . It is possible to kill the mourner without having your stats reduced, if you initiate combat with a weapon that can either 1-hit kill it, or hits multiple times at once to add up enough damage to kill it. For example, a spec attack from a Magic shortbow is one possible method.

You will need everything that the mourner drops, excluding their bones :

Gas mask Bloody mourner top Ripped mourner trousers Mourner boots Mourner gloves Mourner cloak Mourner letter

Because the top is covered in blood, you will first have to clean it before it can be worn. Go to Taverley and talk with the druid Tegid , who is doing his laundry by the lake. He will however refuse to lend you his soap . Therefore, you must steal it from his laundry basket (with level 50 Thieving ). While holding a bucket of water , use the soap on the bloody mourner top to clean it. Tegid's soap is no longer required after this point, so you may drop it or deposit it in the bank as a souvenir to save an inventory spot.

Travel to Lletya , optimally with the teleport crystal , to repair the pair of trousers. Talk to the elven seamstress Oronwen , who will be able to repair the trousers if provided with a bear fur and two silk . You may also purchase the required dyes ( red , yellow , green , and blue ) from her if you haven't acquired them yet.

Infiltrating the headquarters [ edit | edit source ]

Wearing the full mourner gear , you may enter the Mourner Headquarters in West Ardougne , located in the north-east corner of the city. Enter the basement via the trapdoor in the north-western corner, where you will find level-108 mourners and their commander, Essyllt . Speak with him to show him your letter, and he welcomes you aboard.

Essyllt will explain you that their job is to keep the people of Ardougne believing in the plague. One of their ways of doing it involved dyeing Farmer Brumty's sheep. However, their colour is starting to vanish and they will need to be redyed, a task he assigns you to do. Normally, they use a gnomic device to dye them unseen from a distance, however it has broken down and the gnome tinkerer refuses to tell the elves how to repair it. The elf allows you to interrogate the gnome and hands you the broken device and a tarnished key to the torture chamber.

Speak with this gnome in the adjacent room to learn about the variety of torture methods the elves already tried on him. He will accidentally spill that he is vulnerable to having his feet tickled and that he craves for some toad crunchies , and then realises his mistake. Repeat what he said back to him. ( 3 ) …

Then use a feather on the gnome to tickle him while having the toad crunchies or a premade t'd crunch in your inventory. Make sure to not give him the toad crunchies before tickling him, or you will need new ones. The gnome will beg you to stop. Get him off the rack so he may fix the broken device, if you provide him with magic logs and leather . He will then hand you a fixed device . Talk with him again to ask him about the ammunition needed, which turns out to be dyed swamp toads that gruesomely explode when launched from the device.

Sheep [ edit | edit source ]

These toads can be found in the Feldip hills . You may easily reach this location with a Feldip hills teleport or by travelling with fairy rings to A K S . Alternatively, they can be found south of Castle Wars, easily accessible with a ring of dueling or with fairy ring B K P .

Similar to how you have captured the toads during the Big Chompy Bird Hunting quest, you will require an ogre bellows . However, instead of filling it with swamp gas, you need to use dye on it. Using a dyed ogre bellows on a swamp toad results in an inflated toad of that colour. Inflate at least one toad in each of the four colours (for safety you can use extra dyes get multiple toads in each colour, as the toad will be used up if you miss during the next step), and then travel to the coloured sheep from the Sheep Herder quest north of Ardougne .

Use one of the coloured toads on the fixed device , and then wield the device. When near the flock of sheep in that colour, select Aim and Fire in Combat Options , and aim the crosshair at any of the sheep in the flock. Shoot by pressing the red button in the centre of the crosshair. Successfully hitting one will coat the entire flock of sheep.

Repeat the process for the other three colours. When finished, return to Essyllt .

Another favour [ edit | edit source ]

Essyllt will tell you that someone has poisoned their stew recently, causing them to get plague-like symptoms. He will want to apply these symptoms on some of the citizens to stimulate the rumour of the plague. You will need to reproduce the poison.

Take a rotten apple north-west of the Mourner Headquarters . Rotten apples from elsewhere will not work. Go to Elena , the scientist you rescued during Plague City . Her house is north-west in East Ardougne . Ask her for help, and she will reluctantly give in. Continue talking to her and hand her the apple, eventually she hands you a sieve that you will need later.

Travel to the apple orchard , located directly west of the Combat Training Camp , a short distance north-west from Elena's house. In the orchard, take a barrel and use it on a rotten apple pile . Then, use the barrel of rotten apples on the apple press . You will elegantly mash them up into an apple barrel .

You will now require a barrel of naphtha . If you already have one, skip to the Poisoning the Food section.

You now need to add a solvent to make the poison nonlethal and undetectable. Take another barrel from the apple orchard or Tyras Camp , and use it on the coal tar swamp south of Isafdar to get a barrel of coal tar . Then, gather at least 10 regular coal and go to the Chemist 's house in Rimmington .

Follow these simple steps to obtain a barrel of naphtha:

Rotate the tar regulator clockwise twice to make the tar flow at its maximum. The 'pressure' indicator on the left should go up. When the pressure enters the green region, rotate the pressure valve clockwise once to let out some pressure. This should stall the pressure indicator. Start adding coal. This raises the 'heat' indicator on the right. If it is below the green region, add more coal. If it is above, do not add coal until it gets lower. If the heat reading reaches the dark orange portion, you have spoiled your compound and must start again; although the coal is wasted, it can be redone with the same barrel of tar. If you run out of coal, your progress will be saved. This means you do not have to re-set the pressure or re-add coal to it.

When the green bar on the bottom is full, stop adding coal and close the window to replace your barrel of coal tar with a barrel of naphtha.

Poisoning the food [ edit | edit source ]

Use the barrel of naphtha on the apple barrel to get a naphtha apple mix . Then, use your sieve on it to obtain a barrel of toxic naphtha .  The sieve is no longer needed after this point. After first ensuring that you have two free inventory slots, cook this product on a range in order to turn it into two heaps of toxic powder (there is a range inside the Mourner Headquarters ). It must be a range, Do not use a fire! Once the toxic powder is made, you no longer need the empty barrels. Place the powder on two sack of grain locations in West Ardougne . These are found just outside the West Ardougne general store and inside the office north of the manhole .

Go back to Essyllt once more, who will now trust you enough to disclose secret information. Their plan is to delve into the mountains, with the help of enslaved citizens of West Ardougne, under the pretext they fell victim to the plague. They will make a tunnel towards the Temple of Light , to make it easier to resurrect their "Dark Lord".

After talking to Essyllt , head back to Lletya ( teleport crystal ) and talk to Arianwyn to complete the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 40,000 Thieving experience 25,000 Hitpoints experience Access to the Mourner HQ basement and the village of Lletya Elf teleport crystal The fixed device Full mourner clothing

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Mourning's End Part I is required for the following:

Mourning's End Part II

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

30 November 2022 ( update | poll ) | The experience rewarded to the Thieving skill was increased from 25,000 to 40,000.

Date unknown | The quest was renamed from "Mourning's Ends Part I" to "Mourning's End Part I".

28 November - 18 December 2006 | The quest was renamed from "Mourning's Ends Part 1" to "Mourning's Ends Part I".

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If the player has completed the quest Eadgar's Ruse , Tegid will comment on the fact that you stole clothes from his washing line. The name "Mourning's Glory" was proposed for the quest during its development as a play on the morning glory family of flowers, but was likely dismissed due to its use as a slang term for nocturnal penile tumescence . [1]

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Mourning's End Part I

NPCs | Eluned Arianwyn Oronwen Tegid Mourner Essyllt Gnome Slave Red Sheep Green Sheep Blue Sheep Yellow Sheep Elena

Items | Crystal teleport seed Teleport crystal Sieve Tegid's soap Tarnished key Mourner letter Fractionation still Big book of bangs Toxic powder Barrel Apple Rotten apples Coal tar Naphtha Toxic naphtha Naphtha apple mix Mourner outfit Mask Top ( Bloody ) Trousers ( Ripped ) Boots Gloves Cloak Devices Fixed Broken Swamp toads Red Yellow Green Blue Ogre bellows Red Yellow Green Blue Books Prifddinas' history Eastern discovery Eastern settlement The great divide Unobtainable Worn key |  | Crystal teleport seed Teleport crystal Sieve Tegid's soap Tarnished key Mourner letter | Fractionation still | Big book of bangs Toxic powder Barrel Apple Rotten apples Coal tar Naphtha Toxic naphtha Naphtha apple mix | Mourner outfit | Mask Top ( Bloody ) Trousers ( Ripped ) Boots Gloves Cloak | Devices | Fixed Broken | Swamp toads | Red Yellow Green Blue | Ogre bellows | Red Yellow Green Blue | Books | Prifddinas' history Eastern discovery Eastern settlement The great divide | Unobtainable | Worn key

 | Crystal teleport seed Teleport crystal Sieve Tegid's soap Tarnished key Mourner letter

Fractionation still | Big book of bangs Toxic powder Barrel Apple Rotten apples Coal tar Naphtha Toxic naphtha Naphtha apple mix

Mourner outfit | Mask Top ( Bloody ) Trousers ( Ripped ) Boots Gloves Cloak

Devices | Fixed Broken

Swamp toads | Red Yellow Green Blue

Ogre bellows | Red Yellow Green Blue

Books | Prifddinas' history Eastern discovery Eastern settlement The great divide

Unobtainable | Worn key

Locations | Isafdar Mourner Headquarters Mourner Tunnels Poison Waste West Ardougne

Music | Fight or Flight Far Away

Miscellaneous | Quick guide Transcript