 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Murder Mystery (#47)





Released | 9 June 2003 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | James B



Murder Mystery is a quest that investigates the murder of Lord Sinclair . The culprit is random for each player, so some investigation must be done to determine the murderer. However, there are plenty of clues to be found around the Sinclair Mansion .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | The Sinclair Mansion , north along the path between Seers' Village and Camelot . Talk to one of the guards around the mansion. Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Short

Description | Old man Sinclair has been found dead in his mansion! Unfortunately, the local authorities are having some trouble figuring out who's the guilty party. Maybe the unbiased eye of a passing adventurer will be of help.

Requirements | None

Items required | Pot

Recommended | 16 empty inventory spaces Weight-reducing clothing

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Murder Mystery is one of the most unique quests in RuneScape , because the outcome of the quest is random, so there is a reasonable amount of detective work you have to do on your own. However, there are plenty of clues to be found as to who the culprit is.

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Head to the Sinclair Mansion located north to camelot castle .

Talk to the guard to activate the quest. Then, enter the house and search the murder scene, which is on the east side of the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] . There are three things you need to do in this room.

Inside will be a pungent pot on a table, which you should pick up. There is the criminal's dagger on the floor, which you should collect. Investigate the smashed window to find the criminal's thread .

Go around to the various bedrooms belonging to the suspects to find six silver items, all contained within barrels in each room. (There are four rooms upstairs and two on the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] .) Look for:

Anna 's silver necklace Bob 's silver cup Carol 's silver bottle David 's silver book Elizabeth 's silver needle Frank 's silver pot

Now, it's time to get your first piece of evidence. Go to the main entrance of the mansion, and go north-east until you reach the guard dog enclosure. Investigate the sturdy wooden gate for more information.

Next, go to the gardener's shed (the small house on the ground level, west side of the outside of the mansion) and investigate the sacks to find flypaper . Take seven of these.

Go to the kitchen, and fill your pot with flour. Use it on the criminal's dagger; then, use the dagger on a piece of flypaper to get an unknown print . Dust each silver item with more flour, and use the flypaper to lift fingerprints from the items; then, compare them to the print of the criminal's dagger you found at the crime scene by using the flypaper pieces on the first flypaper print you got from the dagger.

Note: You may want to keep the silver necklace since it is a unique cosmetic item and cannot be obtained after completing the quest. If so, you will need to drop the item before completing the quest and pick it up afterwards. Otherwise, the item is taken from your bank or inventory upon quest completion.

Once you've got a match, all the silver items are no longer needed and can be safely dropped, except for your proof.

You'll need more than just that for a conviction, though. Go to the entrance of the mansion, and talk to Gossip , and ask him who he thinks is responsible.

Next, you need to gather info about the poison. There's a poison salesman , who sells it inside of the pub west of the bank in Seers' Village . Ask him to whom he sold the poison, and he'll tell you that everyone at the mansion bought some.

Go back to the house and ask the person who had the fingerprints on the criminal's dagger to find out what the poison was used on. Search the item they mention, detailed here:

Anna - Compost heap Bob - Beehive in cow pen Carol - Sinclair mansion drain, west of the front door David - Spiders' nest , upstairs between the two rooms with three beds each in them Elizabeth - The fountain Frank - Family Crest, east of the front door

You'll find that the subject was lying and didn't use their poison on what they had said they did.

Note: The guard will take the evidence from you. If you dusted the silver necklace with flour, and wish to keep it, drop it before talking to the guard (banking the silver necklace prior will not work and will be removed from your bank).

Go back and talk to a guard and tell him you know who did it. Use the fingerprints of the person that did it on the unknown fingerprint. Show him the fingerprints, tell him about the poison, and show him the thread from the windowsill, since its colour will be a match to an article of the culprit's clothing. Case closed!

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 1,406 Crafting experience 2,000 Coins

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Murder Mystery is required for the following:

Recipe for Disaster King's Ransom

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Murder Mystery

NPCs | Guard Sinclair Guard dog Lord Sinclair Hobbes Gossip Poison Salesman Donovan the Family Handyman Louisa Mary Anna Bob Carol David Elizabeth Frank Pierre Stanford

Items | Pungent pot Criminal's dagger Flypaper Criminal's thread Blue Green Red Silver items Necklace Cup Bottle Book Needle Pot Fingerprints Unknown Killer's Anna's Bob's Carol's David's Elizabeth's Frank's |  | Pungent pot Criminal's dagger Flypaper | Criminal's thread | Blue Green Red | Silver items | Necklace Cup Bottle Book Needle Pot | Fingerprints | Unknown Killer's Anna's Bob's Carol's David's Elizabeth's Frank's

 | Pungent pot Criminal's dagger Flypaper

Criminal's thread | Blue Green Red

Silver items | Necklace Cup Bottle Book Needle Pot

Fingerprints | Unknown Killer's Anna's Bob's Carol's David's Elizabeth's Frank's

Scenery | Sinclair family compost heap Sinclair family beehive Sinclair mansion drain Spiders' nest Sinclair family fountain Sinclair family crest Barrel of flour Anna's barrel Bob's barrel Carol's barrel David's barrel Elizabeth's barrel Frank's barrel Sturdy wooden gate Sacks

Locations | Sinclair Mansion

Music | Monarch Waltz

Related | Quick guide Transcript