 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

My Arm's Big Adventure (#113)





Released | 23 October 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Troll , #4

Lead developer(s) | Ashleigh B



My Arm's Big Adventure is the fourth quest in the troll series . In the quest you must aid My Arm , a young troll who wishes to prove himself by growing his own goutweed. This necessitates gathering goutweed tubers, teaching My Arm how to farm, and fighting a Giant Roc which takes poorly to My Arm's farming attempt.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | The kitchen, deep in the Troll Stronghold . Talk to Burntmeat . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Trolls love goutweed. They love it so much that they've picked it all, and now they can't get any more. However, in his smelly kitchen in the Troll Stronghold, Burntmeat the cook has heard a rumour that goutweed is growing once again, for anyone who's got the skill to farm it. Can you teach his young assistant - a simple troll known as My Arm - to grow the precious goutweed? Will you overcome My Arm's stubbornness and ignorance to earn yourself Burntmeat's reward? Dare you accompany My Arm on this uniquely trollish expedition?

Requirements | 29 Farming ( boostable ) 10 Woodcutting ( not boostable ) [1] Completion of the following quests: Eadgar's Ruse Druidic Ritual Troll Stronghold Death Plateau The Feud Jungle Potion At least 60% favour in the Tai Bwo Wannai Cleanup minigame before starting this quest - this will be subtracted from the total favour Acquiring 100% Tai Bwo Favour rating is a requirement for the Medium Karamja Diary . If completion of the medium diary is desired, it is recommended to get 100% prior to starting this quest

Items required | Bucket (can be obtained during the quest, south of the cooking pot on Death Plateau ) 3 Ugthanki dung , or the following materials to gather it: Red hot sauce (obtainable in Pollnivneach ) or the Camulet (from Enakhra's Lament quest) Spade 3 additional buckets Several farming supplies, which can be stored by any Tool Leprechaun and withdrawn from the Trollheim Tool Leprechaun . He sells all of these except for supercompost: 7 Supercompost (must be super compost; one extra can be used instead of plant cure, making 8 total) Spade Rake Seed dibber Plant cure (not needed if bringing 8 supercompost)

Recommended | 55 Combat level 43 Prayer ( not boostable ) for Protection prayers 61 Magic ( boostable ) for Trollheim Teleport Fast travel to Al Kharid ( ring of dueling or amulet of glory ) or Pollnivneach ( Pollnivneach Teleport or coins to use the magic carpet system ) to obtain Ugthanki Dung Fast travel to Death Plateau ( games necklace to Burthorpe or combat bracelet to the Warriors' Guild ) Climbing boots , if walking from the Troll Stronghold to Death Plateau (can be bought from Tenzing for 12 coins) Stamina or energy potions Food, armour , and a weapon A Machete if you have less than 60% favour in the Tai Bwo Wannai Cleanup minigame

Enemies to defeat | Baby Roc (level 75) Giant Roc (level 172)

League notes | Unlocking Asgarnia ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting the adventure [ edit | edit source ]

To start the quest, travel to the Troll Stronghold and speak to Burntmeat . He is found in the Troll kitchen , go south after going down the stairs. He has heard from another adventurer that humans can grow goutweed and wonders if you can help. You will see a short cutscene with this adventurer in a cooking pot, with his dragon armour strewn over the floor. Burntmeat wants his assistant, My Arm , to learn how to farm.

My Arm is at the back of the room; talk to him, and he will tell you he needs the goutweedy lump from the cooking pot on Death Plateau . Either talk to Burntmeat and follow his instructions to get to the Death Plateau or travel there via other means such as the games necklace .

When near Death Plateau , it is advisable to activate Protect from Missiles against the rock throwers and Protect from Melee while on the plateau. There, use a bucket on the cooking pot to get the goutweedy lump . There is a bucket spawn in a nearby hut if you forgot one.

Return to the Troll Stronghold and talk to My Arm again, who will promptly eat the goutweed. He will then guide you to his farm on the roof of the stronghold to show you what he had tried to grow. Speak with him there, and he will give you a farming manual that he asks you to read.

Fertiliser [ edit | edit source ]

You now need to get the fertiliser for the goutweed: three buckets of Ugthanki dung and seven supercompost . There are two ways to obtain Ugthanki dung ; using red hot sauce or the Camulet .

Go to Pollnivneach . If you do not have a camulet , talk to Ali the Kebab seller and ask him for his red hot sauce . Then head to Ali the Camel Man 's store and use the red hot sauce on the trough. A camel nearby should eat it and produce dung. Use the empty buckets on the dung; picking it up will result in a humorous message.

If the player has a camulet, the player can directly ask the camel to produce dung for them. The camel may or may not agree to the request so simply keep doing so until they agree to.

Once the camel dung is obtained, head back to the patch with a spade and seven supercompost . Use them all on the patch My Arm made. With the patch set, now you just need the herb.

Karamja [ edit | edit source ]

Having fertilised the patch, talk to My Arm again. He will want to venture with you to Tai Bwo Wannai , as goutweed supposedly originates from there. You'll see a short cutscene on the docks of Ardougne , followed by a scene on the ship. Once you arrive at Brimhaven , My Arm will have already run off towards Tai Bwo Wannai. You can find him just east of Jiminua's Jungle Store . Talk to him there.

With at least 60% favour talk to Murcaily . Note that doing this will subtract this percentage from your total favour, so you may first want to reach 100% for the diary. Murcaily will initially give you a single hardy gout tuber . Then, a cutscene will follow in which My Arm causes havoc around the village in search of the tubers, and Murcaily will give you lots of hardy gout tubers . You will then return to Ardougne .

My Arm harasses Qutiedoll in his quest for Goutweed. My Arm knocks away a broodoo victim . My Arm defeats the village's strongest warrior, Jagbakoba , with a hefty punch.

The Rocs [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Speak with My Arm again - he suggests you go back to the bank to get some food because of some "large birds" on top of the mountain. You will need to bring the required farming tools or ensure your tool leprechaun has them. You should also bring decent armour , weaponry and food .

Go back to the top of the Troll Stronghold where My Arm is. You can retrieve or purchase the tools from the nearby tool leprechaun nearby.

You'll need to give My Arm the materials to plant his tubers, as if you were planting them yourself. Give him the tools in the following order;

Rake (this may break - simply retrieve the head and combine it with the handle, then hand it back to My Arm) The hardy gout tubers Seed dibber Supercompost before it fully grows, or plant cure after it becomes diseased ( there is a chance for the plant to become diseased in the cutscene with the drunken dwarf so have a plant cure stored in the leprechaun just in case)

When the goutweed is planted in step #3, the Drunken Dwarf will appear before getting unceremoniously thrown off the roof of the stronghold by My Arm, and then eaten by an unnamed troll child .

My Arm planting the hardy gout tubers . My Arm attacks the Drunken Dwarf , hurling him off the roof. An unnamed troll child , soon to earn his name.

After the goutweed finishes growing, a bird will swoop down and attack the goutweed - it is only a level 75 Baby Roc and defeating it should be fairly easy.

However, this will anger a far more dangerous level 172 Giant Roc , who will immediately attack you. It uses both Melee and Ranged attacks. The melee attack will also force you backwards unless your back is against a rock or wall. Its ranged attacks may be dodged, although this requires precise timing. It is recommended to fight with Protect from Missiles activated and eat when required. The Giant Roc is more resistant to Ranged or Melee damage compared to Magic damage as shown by the respective defence roll formulas: (100 Defence Level + 9) x (0 + 64) = 6976 for melee/ranged (the Giant Roc has 0 defence bonuses for all melee styles and ranged) vs (1 Magic Level + 9) x (150 Magic defence bonus + 64) = 2140. With its lower defence roll against magic, it is advised to use Magic to damage it.  My Arm will also attack the bird, but his attacks only tend to hit 1 to 3, so don't rely on this.

Once it has been defeated, talk to My Arm again. You will now need to give him a spade to dig up the goutweed . If you forgot the spade, climb down the ladder and back up for the leprechaun to reappear. My Arm will then tell you to speak with Burntmeat for your great reward - you guessed it, a full inventory of burnt meat !

Talk to My Arm one last time to complete the quest. He will offer you some better rewards.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 10,000 Herblore experience 5,000 Farming experience 45×7  (315 total) additional Farming experience while My Arm harvests his crop. Access to a disease-free herb patch on top of the Troll Stronghold . This patch does not allow growing of regular Goutweed . 29 Burnt meat

Unlocks:

Giant Roc accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of My Arm's Big Adventure is required for the following:

Making Friends with My Arm

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If you have a gout tuber in your bank or inventory when first talking to My Arm , you will attempt to offer it instead of going to Death Plateau . However, My Arm is very stubborn and refuses. Depending on where your house is, your character will reference its location and tell My Arm that he's never coming over. If during the part of the quest where he shows you his farming patch you already have the Ugthanki dung in your inventory, he will point out that you stink. Qutiedoll made his second appearance after the Draynor Bank Robbery during the Rumble in the Jungle cutscene when he was attacked by My Arm. During a cutscene, My Arm throws the Drunken Dwarf off the roof of the Troll Stronghold and an unnamed young troll comes up to him. After the quest, the troll's name has changed to Drunken Dwarf's Leg . During the first cutscene, if you try to take any of the items on the floor, the cutscene will stop and Burntmeat will tell you to start paying attention. If using a 3rd party client, it is possible to see the high alchemy value of these items are all 3gp - abnormal for items such as an abyssal whip . If you have completed the Swan Song quest and ask for the dragon equipment as your reward just after the first cutscene, you will complain that this is just like the Wise Old Man not giving you his blue partyhat at the end of the quest. If you have completed the Swan Song quest, during the first cutscene on the ship My Arm will mention that trolls don't like the sea. The player then mentions the sea trolls fought during Swan Song. My Arm will not believe you, and say that they are not real trolls. If you haven't completed Swan Song, the player will mention river trolls instead. My Arm uses a spade in his animation to harvest his healthy goutweed. Normally, players would harvest healthy herbs by picking them and clear dead herbs with a spade. After the quest, My Arm grows goutweed continually next to the disease-free herb patch on the roof of the stronghold. If you try to pick the goutweed when it is fully grown, your character will say: "This is My Arm's problem now". While My Arm is picking goutweed, if you gain a Farming level he will congratulate you. When receiving the hardy gout tuber from Murcaily, the tuber will be placed in the last slot. If that slot is already occupied, your inventory will be reorganised to sort all empty spaces above the tubers. After the quest, if you speak to Captain Barnaby in the Ardougne docks he will exclaim "Oh no, it's you again!". When speaking about troll names being strange, My Arm states that humans also have strange names containing "numbers and things wot aren't even words". He will then mention the name of the player that My Arm last spoke to. The stored player name is specific to each world, and will be lost in case the other player logs out, besides being wiped upon a server restart. [1] If no stored name is available, an abbreviated version of the same line of dialogue is shown. During a cutscene in Tai Bwo Wannai , My Arm says "Da Rumble in da Jungle!". This is a reference to The Rumble in the Jungle; an historic boxing event in what is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The fight saw Muhammad Ali defeat George Foreman. The title of the quest is an innuendo. [2]

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e My Arm's Big Adventure

NPCs | Burntmeat Adventurer My Arm Captain Barnaby Murcaily Jagbakoba Larry Drunken Dwarf's Leg Ali the Camel Ash Dung Qutiedoll Dolphin Enemies Baby Roc Giant Roc |  | Burntmeat Adventurer My Arm Captain Barnaby Murcaily Jagbakoba Larry Drunken Dwarf's Leg Ali the Camel Ash Dung Qutiedoll Dolphin | Enemies | Baby Roc Giant Roc

 | Burntmeat Adventurer My Arm Captain Barnaby Murcaily Jagbakoba Larry Drunken Dwarf's Leg Ali the Camel Ash Dung Qutiedoll Dolphin

Enemies | Baby Roc Giant Roc

Items | Goutweed Goutweedy lump Farming manual Hardy gout tuber Hardy gout tubers

Locations | Death Plateau Troll Stronghold

Music | My Arm's Journey Roc and Roll

Related | Quick guide Transcript