 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Nature Spirit (#55)





Released | 13 July 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tytn H



Nature Spirit is a quest that takes place deep in the Mort Myre Swamp . The nature spirit Filliman Tarlock needs help restoring the Nature Grotto , his home, to its previous glory.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Drezel under the Paterdomus Temple near the River Salve . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | After saving the holy man Drezel, he's seeking some assistance again.
This time he has a special request for any adventurous sorts to search for the Druid 'Filliman Tarlock' and brave the terrors that infest the swamp of Mort Myre.

Requirements | Completion of Priest in Peril Completion of The Restless Ghost

Items required | Silver sickle - either purchase it from the Grand Exchange , or make it with a silver bar and sickle mould in a furnace at 18 Crafting . Ironmen can buy a silver bar from the Silver merchant in Ardougne . Ghostspeak amulet 6 empty inventory spaces

Recommended | 20 Combat level Weapon , armour and some food (you may wish to bring extra food due to the ghasts encountered during the quest who will attempt to rot the food you bring) Stamina or energy potions Prayer potions 2 Salve Graveyard Teleports to teleport near Drezel 2 Barrows Teleports to teleport near the Filliman Tarlock to avoid walking through the swamp [optional]

Enemies to defeat | 3 Ghasts (level 30)

Ironman concerns | 18 Crafting ( boostable ) (in order to create a silver sickle )

League notes | Unlocking Misthalin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Drezel , where you left him at the end of Priest in Peril (beside the holy barrier to Morytania, under the temple). Drezel will give you three meat pies and three apple pies to take to Filliman Tarlock . He'll warn you about the aforementioned ghasts . Do not worry about the provided food being rotted as you won't actually end up giving Filliman the food. Pass through the Holy Barrier , then cross the nearby bridge. Travel south to the gate permitting access to the Mort Myre Swamp . You must enter the Mort Myre Swamp through the gate, or Filliman will not appear.

Ignore the warning and proceed into the swamp. Go south along the west river until you see the grotto tree. In this area, you will find the aforementioned ghasts who are barely visible spirits that will attempt to rot your food. They often miss, and if you run out of food, they will deal up to 3 typeless melee damage every time they attack. You will also periodically lose 3 health every 2 minutes within the swamp. This will not happen on Filliman's island or in the Nature Grotto . Jump across the broken bridge to the grotto. You may fail and take upwards of 7 damage attempting to get across the bridge.

If you try to enter the grotto (only the small black hole in the grotto tree has the enter option), Filliman Tarlock will come out.

It turns out that he has died and is now a ghost , so put your Amulet of ghostspeak on and talk to him. If you don't have your Amulet of ghostspeak on, he'll say something ghost-like and that will be the end of the conversation. He won't believe that he's dead, so take the washing bowl off the nearby table to find a mirror underneath. Take the mirror and use it on him. He will now believe that he is a ghost. After this, he tells you to find his journal . Search the grotto tree to get it and give it to him. (If the journal is in your bank from a previous session, you'll get the 'you find nothing interesting.' message)

Filliman will tell you that he wants to become a Nature Spirit, but he needs your help to complete the transformation. He will give you a spell scroll that you can use to cast a Bloom spell.

Collecting the three items [ edit | edit source ]

You now need to obtain the following three items:

Go back to Drezel and ask him to bless you. After he has blessed you, he will say: "when I look at you, there does seem to be something of the faith about you."

Note: Prayer points are required for the next step , there is an altar in the Paterdomus Temple main floor that can be used to recharge.

After Drezel has blessed you, find a Rotting Log in the swamp and cast the Bloom spell next to it to make a mushroom grow. Do not drop the used spell , as you will need it. Pick up the mushroom and show it to Filliman , and he tells you that the mushroom is Something of nature . If a Ghast turns your mushroom rotten, go back to the grotto to see Filliman. Click on the entrance to be given the enter option. You have to click on the actual entrance.

Note: Dropping the new spell card that is given to you, and asking for another will allow you to grab multiple spell cards in case you have no prayer. (Drop and ask for more trick)

The used spell card is the Something of the spirit to become freely given .

Note: If asked before placing the items on the stone, the player can receive another unused spell card, allowing them to cast the spell in the next step without using Prayer points.

At Filliman's grotto, use the mushroom on the light-brown (western) stone , and the used spell card on the grey stone . Summon Filliman again if needed by trying to enter his grotto, then, while standing on the orange stone , tell Filliman you think that you have solved the puzzle. Filliman will complete half of his transformation and ask you to come inside the grotto . Note: You must use the mushroom and used spell card on the stones, not drop them.

Go inside, and search the grotto in the middle of the cave. Filliman will turn into a Nature Spirit. He will then ask you to get a Silver sickle . Talk to him again to give Filliman your Silver sickle. He will bless it and give you back a Silver sickle (b) and tell you that you can bless other sickles in the future simply by dipping them in the grotto water. He will also give you a Druid pouch and tell you to kill three ghasts .

Killing the ghasts [ edit | edit source ]

Note: You can only use the druid pouch after Filliman tells you how. If you get a message saying "You've not been told how to use this item yet.", simply add items to your inventory and fill it.

Note: Right click on Blessed Sickle when near a log to cast Bloom . You must do this 3 times and pick up the fungi. Once you have 3 in your inventory, fill the pouch, then use it on a ghast to reveal them. You must cast Bloom 3 times near a swamp log to obtain 3 fungi. Every cast of Bloom with Sickle costs prayer.

Note: You can use the druid pouch on a ghast nearby to manually make the ghast visible and attackable if it takes too long to get them to do so automatically. Note: You do not have to use the sickle to kill the ghasts. You may switch to a better weapon.

Go into the swamp with the blessed silver sickle, and operate it to cast Bloom while standing next to logs, bushes, and twigs. This will deduct Prayer points and will allow you to harvest pears , fungi , and stems . Add at least three pears, fungi, or stems to your druid pouch by clicking "Fill" while three of them are in your inventory. When you use the druid pouch on the ghast, they'll become visible (level 30), and one charge will be deducted from your druid pouch. Kill three of them, and then talk to the Nature Spirit again. He will redecorate the grotto and reward you (each ghast you kill will award 30 prayer experience, 90 overall).

Go back in Filliman's grotto, search the grotto and speak with Filliman.

Note: Do not drop anything before speaking with Filliman as dropped items will be left behind in the "old" grotto upon completion of the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Tip: Before leaving, pray at the Altar of nature to complete an easy task for the Morytania Diary .

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 3,000 Crafting experience 2,000 Defence experience 2,000 Hitpoints experience Access to Mort Myre Swamp and the Nature Spirit altar, where you can replenish and temporarily boost your prayer points by 2 Ability to fight ghasts 3 meat pies and 3 apple pies unless they were rotted by the ghasts Ability to build the fire of dehumidification after completion of Making Friends with My Arm

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Nature Spirit is required for the following:

Fairytale I - Growing Pains In Search of the Myreque Recipe for Disaster - Lumbridge Guide subquest While Guthix Sleeps Easy Morytania Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Nature Spirit

NPCs | Drezel Filliman Tarlock Nature Spirit Enemies Ghast |  | Drezel Filliman Tarlock Nature Spirit | Enemies | Ghast

 | Drezel Filliman Tarlock Nature Spirit

Enemies | Ghast

Items | Ghostspeak amulet Washing bowl Mirror Journal Druidic spell A used spell Sickle mould Silver sickle Silver sickle (b) Druid pouch Mort myre fungus Mort myre stem Mort myre pear

Objects | Golden pear bush Budding branch Fungi on log Stone

Locations | Mort Myre Swamp Nature Grotto

Music | Grotto

Related | Quick guide Bloom