 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

One Small Favour (#72)





Released | 28 February 2005 ( Update )

Also called | OSF

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tytn H



One Small Favour is a humorous quest in which you are asked to complete a favour, although things turn out to be less simple than that.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Yanni Salika in Shilo Village . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Long

Description | If you're new to Shilo Village after solving the mystery (or even if you did it some time ago), you may like to check out Yanni Salika's antiques shop. He's a busy chap, revamping antique items, checking out new stock from potential adventurers and maybe he'll have a small (1) favour to ask of you? Probably nothing particularly large, Yanni isn't a demanding (2) person, should hardly take you any time (3) at all really, something to do when you have a spare moment. That's assuming there aren't any complications. 1: - Perception of the word "small" may be open to interpretation. 2: - In a recent vote, Yanni Salika was only voted the second most demanding person in Shilo Village. 3: - As everyone knows, time is relative.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual 36 Agility ( boostable ) 25 Crafting ( boostable ) 18 Herblore ( boostable ) 30 Smithing ( boostable )

Items required | 4 steel bars Bronze bar Iron bar Chisel (Obtainable during the quest) The ingredients required to make a Guthix rest : 2 Guam leaves Marrentill Harralander Bowl of hot water (Obtainable during the quest) Empty cup (Obtainable during the quest) Hammer (Obtainable during the quest) 5 pigeon cages (Obtainable during the quest) Note: The pigeons do not need to be let out of the cages. Pot (Obtainable during the quest) Soft clay (Obtained during the quest) Two of each of the following gems HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: (Two of each gem are obtained uncut during the quest but must be cut before using, with a high chance to crush them) Opal Jade Red topaz Sapphire

Recommended | 45 Combat level Weight-reducing clothing and stamina or energy potions . Fast travel to several locations Shilo Village (travel to Brimhaven and take the cart or use Fairy Rings to C K R ) Port Sarim and Draynor Village ( Amulet of Glory or Explorer's Ring 2 ) Varrock ( Varrock teleport ) Barbarian Village and Dwarven Mine ( Skull Sceptre or Combat Bracelet to the Edgeville Monastery ) Taverley ( House teleports or Balloon transport system ) White Wolf Mountain ( Gnome Glider ) Catherby and Seer's Village ( Camelot teleport , or Catherby teleport and Combat Bracelet teleport to the Ranging Guild ) Fishing Guild ( Skills Necklace or Fishing guild teleport ) East Ardougne ( Ardougne teleport ) Port Khazard ( Ardougne cloak teleport to the Ardougne Monastery , Khazard teleport or Fishing Trawler Grouping teleport) Feldip Hills ( Feldip hills teleport or use Fairy Rings to A K S or the jungle Eagle transport system ) The highest level Pickaxe you can wield to fight the Slagilith (damage dealt by other weapons is reduced by 67%) Armour and some food Lockpick to enter the H.A.M. Hideout if your Thieving level is low

Enemies to defeat | Slagilith (level 92) Dwarf gang members (level 44/48/49) ( Multicombat area )

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest The quest is otherwise not completable.

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Players are advised to read through each section before starting, as there are many different teleportation options that will vary by player and will determine items required before banking again. Players are also encouraged to complete as many stages of this quest as possible without any combat gear equipped, in order to preserve energy for running (as there is a lot of ground to cover). The walkthrough will alert you if there are any impending encounters where any combat items may be necessary.

Karamja [ edit | edit source ]

Travel to Shilo Village and talk to Yanni Salika in the antiques shop north of the river. Fairy ring code C K R brings you close to the wall of Shilo Village . He will ask a small favour—get some red mahogany logs from a forester south of the village.

Leave the village (go through both gates in the south-east and climb over the broken cart) and talk to a forester just south-west of the entrance. You are asked to take a blunt axe to Captain Shanks and get it sharpened. Go due west to the ocean, climb up the ladder next to the docked ship, and talk to Captain Shanks. He will tell you to go to Port Sarim to get the axe sharpened there.

Asgarnia and Misthalin [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Brian in the axe shop in Port Sarim . He is too worried about his friend, who is being convicted of a crime and deciding to go to the Wilderness to avoid trial, to sharpen your axe. Agree to help him by saying, "Ok, ok, I'll do it! I'll go and see Aggie." Then, you must give Brian the Blunt axe before going to Aggie, or you will be unable to proceed further.

Upon asking "Is there anyone else who can sharpen this axe?," Brian will mention Bob in Lumbridge. Do not go to Bob in Lumbridge - Bob simply states "Hmmm, yes, that looks pretty badly damaged. Unfortunately, I don't have the tools to fix it, but Brian over in Port Sarim might be able to."

Speak to Aggie the witch in Draynor Village (not Draynor Manor; teleport using Amulet of glory ) about being a witness. She will help you if you agree to find her apprentice, Jimmy the Chisel , who has gone missing looking for supplies.

Go to the H.A.M. Hideout (east of Draynor Village). Pick the lock on the trapdoor to get in. Go to the south-east corner and speak to Johanhus Ulsbrecht regarding Jimmy, and ask, "And I suppose you need me to do you a favour?" He will let Jimmy go if you provide his cult with a month's supply of chickens ; he suggests talking to Fred the Farmer .

Exit the H.A.M. headquarters, and go north-east to Fred the Farmer's house (the house with a dairy churn and a water drop on the minimap). Talk to Fred the Farmer, who does not have enough chickens. He tells you to go to Seth Groats (located east on the other side of the river in the chicken coop across from the cow field).

Talk with Seth Groats. He wants you to give three steel bars to Horvik in Varrock to make some cages for the chickens.

Speak with Horvik located in the armour shop north-east of Varrock Square (teleport to Varrock). He is very ill and needs a herbal antidote and some pigeon cages to modify into chicken cages.  (To save time and weight for running, don't get the five pigeon cages now, you can get them later) Pigeon cages can be found in the garden behind Jerico 's house, immediately south of the northern bank in East Ardougne . He says that you will need five of them.

Horvik will take 3 steel bars automatically during the dialogue, thus freeing 3 inventory spaces. Go to the Apothecary in south-west Varrock regarding Horvik's illness. He gives you the herbal tincture but drops the breathing salts . Agree to get a new airtight pot . You may drop the herbal tincture now to save 1 inventory space, as you can get it back from the Apothecary later with the breathing salts at the final stage of the quest.

Note: If you don't have the harralander, 2 guam, and marrentil for the next section, now would be a good time to get them from the G.E. or from killing chaos druids in the Edgeville dungeon.
Go to the Barbarian Village (teleport using the Skull sceptre ), and talk to Tassie Slipcast the potter. She is too worried to show you how to make an airtight pot because she is being pressured by a dwarf called Hammerspike Stoutbeard in the Dwarven Mines .

Go to the Dwarven Mines (teleport using the Skills necklace to Mining Guild, or take a minecart from Keldagrim ). Head north-west to the westernmost cave past the anvils until you see Hammerspike Stoutbeard surrounded by dwarf gang members (there is an Agility shortcut requiring 42 Agility) or (You can use a disk of returning to get to Hammerspike faster after you teleport to the mining guild. Ask him, "Have you always been a gangster?" He will tell you that he always wanted to be a druid.

Go to Taverley , and talk with Sanfew , who is on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of the central house with the herb icon. Ask him if he's taking any new initiates and accepts dwarves, and tell him that a dwarf you know wants to become one. He will allow Hammerspike to become a druid apprentice, but he wants you to give a Guthix rest tea to Captain Bleemadge on top of White Wolf Mountain and organise a trip for Sanfew down to the Feldip Hills .

Use the bowl of hot water with an empty teacup (one spawns in the building north of Sanfew), add one harralander , two guam leaves and a marrentill . Once you have the tea, travel to the top of White Wolf Mountain (gnome glider is one way). Speak to Captain Bleemadge , and give him the tea . He will want some T.R.A.S.H. (Triple Redundant Aero Super Hawsers) for the trip down to the Feldip Hills. You may drop the bowl now.

Kandarin [ edit | edit source ]

Travel to the general store south of Catherby bank, and speak to Arhein , who will ask for a weather report . Look on your map and go to the house with the water source north of the church in Seers' Village (teleport to Camelot and walk west). Speak with Phantuwti Fanstuwi Farsight , located in the building with the water symbol, who is looking for a missing person and cannot do the weather forecast until she is found.

Enter the cave east of the Fishing Guild entrance (teleport using a Skills necklace ). Head north along the east wall until you come to a cave where Petra is trapped in a rock. Right-click and search the sculpture to find a message saying to speak to Wizard Cromperty . After finding the message, go to the north-east corner of Ardougne marketplace and speak to Wizard Cromperty about a girl stuck in some rock. He needs some iron oxide from a man in Port Khazard . If you don't have a hammer or chisel yet, you may acquire them in this building.

Go to Port Khazard. Walk there, because you will have to come back in less than 20 minutes (the time to use the Fishing Trawler Grouping teleport .) Alternatively, take the boat from South Ardougne to Brimhaven and then the charter boat to Port Khazard for 400 coins . (Alternatively, you can use the Ardougne cloak to teleport to the Ardougne Monastery .) Talk to Tindel Marchant on the southern dock, and he will want his stodgy mattress stuffed for the iron oxide.

Go to the Feldip Hills (You can get there via the following options: fairy ring code A K S , by taking a charter ship to Corsair Cove for 600 coins, via Feldip hills teleport , teleporting via ring of dueling to Castle Wars , or if you have 99 Hunter , teleporting to the red chinchompas .), and talk to Rantz , who is located at the quest icon in eastern Feldip Hills. He cannot do it because there is a "small man" causing a disturbance which is scaring the chompy birds. Tell him that you'll see what you can do. Lower combat level players should be aware that this area is full of ogres (level 53-63) who can deal a lot of damage to unarmoured players. This shouldn't pose too much of an issue for most players, as you won't spend too much time in areas where you're in danger of catching their attention, but it doesn't hurt to tread carefully.

Go west until you see a landing strip and Gnome glider with a gnome named Gnormadium Avlafrim . Talk to him, and he will tell you he needs to repair the landing strip. Search each of the eight landing lights for a gem , cut it, and put it back in the landing lights. The gnome can sell you a chisel and up to 2 spare gems of each type for 500 coins each if you happen to crush them. Do not allow the gems to despawn, as you will have to bank to retrieve new ones.

Completing the favours [ edit | edit source ]

Talk with Gnormadium to tell him the runway lights are fixed, then go back to Rantz to get the comfy mattress . Give the comfy mattress to Tindel in Port Khazard (a quick way to get to there is to use the Ardougne cloak to teleport to the Ardougne Monastery , or the Fishing Trawler Grouping teleport , if you didn't use it before) to get the iron oxide . Take the iron oxide to Wizard Cromperty in Ardougne , and he will give you an animate rock scroll .

Now that you have the animate rock scroll, you will need to fight a level 92 rock monster that is weak to crush attacks and uses Melee , so stop by the bank, get some food , and equip some decent armour and a weapon or pickaxe . Fighting with a pickaxe is recommended; however, low levels can use Magic from the safespot just north of where it spawns, shown below. It is also possible to fight the monster head on with just 1-2 prayer potion (s) and a pickaxe if you have at least 43 Prayer to use Protect from Melee .

Head back to the Goblin Cave near the Fishing Guild , and hug the eastern wall until you come to the same room as before. Stand in front of the sculpture and read the animate rock scroll and kill the Slagilith . After killing him, stand back in front of the sculpture and read the scroll once more to release Petra . Make sure you talk to Petra so she goes back to Seer's Village before going to see Phantuwti. You may drop the animate rock scroll now.

The Slagilith has a maximum hit of 13, is hard to damage, and if you leave the room or take too long killing it, you will have to start the fight over. Travel back to the Goblin Cave south of Fishing Guild and cast the animation spell to begin the fight once again.

Note: If you get a message saying, "You don't feel that you should cast this with enemies around", walk out of the room, and kill the bats around the entrance; then, return to the middle of the room and try again.

Go to Seers' Village with 3 empty inventory spaces, best via Camelot teleport, and speak to Phantuwti . He is unable to give you a weather report because his weather vane is broken. You'll have to go through all the chat options, and then ask him, "Why can't you get a clear picture?" Then, ask, "Which special Seers tools do you need?" and "What do you mean, 'special combination of items'?" Finally, he'll tell you about his weather vane. Climb the ladder, head east, and climb another ladder to the roof of his house (36 Agility required). Search the weather vane, use a hammer with the weather vane, and search it again to get three broken vane parts . Go to an anvil (closest is across the street) with a bronze , iron , and steel bar , and use the parts of the weather vane with the anvil (30 Smithing required). Go back to the roof of the house, and put the weathervane pillar , the directionals , and the ornament back on the Seers weathervane . Talk to Phantuwti again for a (comically useless) weather report .

Take the report to Arhein in Catherby , who will send somebody to send T.R.A.S.H. to Captain Bleemadge . Talk to Captain Bleemadge on top of White Wolf Mountain . (low and mid-levels should beware of the levle 73 Big Wolf near Captain Bleemadge)

Note: You can teleport to the Emir's Arena and use the nearby gnome glider. Note: You may now fly the glider to Feldip Hills to complete a medium Western Province task.

Talk to Sanfew in Taverley , and he will agree to let the dwarf become an initiate.

Talk to Hammerspike in the Dwarven Mine . Predictably, he has "changed his mind" about becoming a druid. Talk to him again and he'll have his gang members attack you; they must be fought to continue the quest. There are three gang members (levelled in the mid-to-high 40s) in the room who will attack you at once and altogether can deal a fair amount of damage if you have no armour equipped, so come prepared for this battle (bring a weapon to end the fight quickly). Once they're dealt with, speak to Hammerspike again , who will agree to stop harassing Tassie .

Go to Barbarian Village and talk to Tassie, who will give you some soft clay and teach you how to make pot lids . Use the soft clay on the wheel to make an unfired pot lid and then use the unfired pot lid on the pottery oven . (Another pot lid is needed for Swan Song , so you could make it now to save some time later.) You may take the pot at the Barbarian Village helmet shop to the north-west before you leave the village.

Go to the Apothecary in Varrock , and give him the pot and pot lid in return for the salts .

Go back to Horvik the Varrock blacksmith, and give him the breathing salts and herbal tincture . Talk to him again to give him the pigeon cages

With the chicken cages in your inventory, teleport to Lumbridge and go to Seth Groats (his farm is on the east side of the River Lum ), and give him the chicken cages .

Go to the H.A.M. headquarters , and tell Johanhus in the south-eastern-most room that you've managed to swing that chicken deal; he will agree to release Jimmy .

Go to Draynor Village , and talk with Aggie the witch, who will agree to help Brian .

Go to Port Sarim , and Brian will give you the sharpened axe (after pulling your leg a bit).

Go back to the forester just south of the entrance to Shilo Village , and you receive some red mahogany logs in exchange for the sharpened axe.

Speak with Yanni in Shilo Village to complete the quest.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points Two experience lamps giving 10,000 experience to any skill of your choice. Skill must be at least level 30. A steel key ring The ability to make Guthix rest tea The ability to craft pot lids Access to the gnome glider route to the Feldip Hills

Unlocks:

Slagilith accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of One Small Favour is required for the following:

King's Ransom Swan Song

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

14 April 2016 ( update ) | It is now possible to talk to Johanhus Ulsbrecht about One Small Favour if you are in the middle of Death to the Dorgeshuun.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Hammerspike Stoutbeard's desire to be a druid may stem from Pikel Bouldershoulder, a dwarf druid from several of R.A. Salvatore's books. Wizard Cromperty comments on the frequency with which people teleport into rock walls, saying that it can happen with just the smallest miscalculation. This may be a reference to the classic RPG Wizardry, which featured a teleport spell that, if cast with the wrong coordinates, could teleport you into a rock instead of the dungeon. This "feature" was notorious amongst Wizardry players, as it immediately killed your entire party. Petra Fiyed is a wordplay on the word "petrified," appropriately meaning "turned to stone". When mentioning that the jungle foresters are looking for ways into the Kharazi Jungle , Yanni mentions some old timer from the Legends' Guild constantly sending new recruits there for no apparent reason, referencing the Legends' Quest .

v • t • e One Small Favour

NPCs | Yanni Salika Jungle forester Captain Shanks Brian Aggie Jimmy the Chisel Johanhus Ulsbrecht Fred the Farmer Seth Groats Horvik Apothecary Tassie Slipcast Hammerspike Stoutbeard Sanfew Captain Bleemadge Arhein Phantuwti Fanstuwi Farsight Wizard Cromperty Tindel Marchant Rantz Gnormadium Avlafrim Petra Fiyed Monsters Dwarf gang member Slagilith |  | Yanni Salika Jungle forester Captain Shanks Brian Aggie Jimmy the Chisel Johanhus Ulsbrecht Fred the Farmer Seth Groats Horvik Apothecary Tassie Slipcast Hammerspike Stoutbeard Sanfew Captain Bleemadge Arhein Phantuwti Fanstuwi Farsight Wizard Cromperty Tindel Marchant Rantz Gnormadium Avlafrim Petra Fiyed | Monsters | Dwarf gang member Slagilith

 | Yanni Salika Jungle forester Captain Shanks Brian Aggie Jimmy the Chisel Johanhus Ulsbrecht Fred the Farmer Seth Groats Horvik Apothecary Tassie Slipcast Hammerspike Stoutbeard Sanfew Captain Bleemadge Arhein Phantuwti Fanstuwi Farsight Wizard Cromperty Tindel Marchant Rantz Gnormadium Avlafrim Petra Fiyed

Monsters | Dwarf gang member Slagilith

Items | Blunt axe Herbal tincture Stodgy mattress Comfy mattress Iron oxide Animate rock scroll Weather report Unfired pot lid Pot lid Airtight pot Breathing salts Pigeon cage Chicken cage Sharpened axe Red mahogany log Vane parts Broken vane part Directionals Ornament Weathervane pillar Guthix rest Bowl of hot water Cup of water Cup of hot water Ruined herb tea Herb tea mix Guthix rest |  | Blunt axe Herbal tincture Stodgy mattress Comfy mattress Iron oxide Animate rock scroll Weather report Unfired pot lid Pot lid Airtight pot Breathing salts Pigeon cage Chicken cage Sharpened axe Red mahogany log | Vane parts | Broken vane part Directionals Ornament Weathervane pillar | Guthix rest | Bowl of hot water Cup of water Cup of hot water Ruined herb tea Herb tea mix Guthix rest

 | Blunt axe Herbal tincture Stodgy mattress Comfy mattress Iron oxide Animate rock scroll Weather report Unfired pot lid Pot lid Airtight pot Breathing salts Pigeon cage Chicken cage Sharpened axe Red mahogany log

Vane parts | Broken vane part Directionals Ornament Weathervane pillar

Guthix rest | Bowl of hot water Cup of water Cup of hot water Ruined herb tea Herb tea mix Guthix rest

Reward | Antique lamp Steel key ring

Locations | Shilo Village Kharazi Jungle Port Sarim Draynor Village Lumbridge Varrock Barbarian Village Dwarven Mine Taverley White Wolf Mountain Catherby Seers' Village Goblin Cave East Ardougne Port Khazard Feldip Hills

Scenery | Seers weathervane

Related | Quick guide Transcript