 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Perilous Moons (#163)





Released | 20 March 2024 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Mod Rice



Perilous Moons is a quest introducing the players to Cam Torum , a dwarven settlement in Varlamore , and rewards access to the Moons of Peril boss encounter.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Zuma or Attala at the entrance to Cam Torum . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Medium

Description | Beneath the steep and jagged cliffs of Ralos' Rise sits the dwarven town of Cam Torum. Its strong fortifications have kept it safe through all of Varlamore's history... but now the inhabitants face a new challenge. Lurking below the surface is an ancient temple, built to contain powerful entities. Now, the earth has been disturbed – and the dwarves need your help to keep these strange beings contained!

Requirements | 48 Slayer ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 20 Hunter ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 20 Fishing ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 20 Runecraft ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 10 Construction ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Twilight's Promise Children of the Sun

Items required | Knife (obtainable during quest) Big fishing net (obtainable during quest) Rope (obtainable during quest) Pestle and mortar (obtainable during quest) Combat equipment for multiple PvM encounters.

Recommended | 75 Combat level 60+ Attack , Strength , and Defence Some form of energy regeneration Antipoison , if below 100 , for aggressive Grimy lizards 5 empty inventory spaces (for building supplies) 10 quetzal feed , 4 soft clay , 3 limestone bricks (to build a landing site for the Quetzal Transport System )

Enemies to defeat | Sulphur Nagua (level 98) Blue Moon (level 329) Blood Moon (level 329) Eclipse Moon (level 329)

League notes | Varlamore ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Ruins in Cam Torum [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to the Cam Torum entrance at the southern side of Ralos' Rise . If you have not already built a landing site by the city entrance, it is recommended to do so for quick access via the Quetzal Transport System .

At the bridge near the entrance, Zuma and Attala will be in argument. Zuma wishes to enter the dwarven city to document some newly discovered ruins but Attala refuses due to the risks involved. A guard will come out of the gates and inform Attala that a creature has escaped through the mountain's outflow spring and that they have no spare men to deal with it.

Agree to help Attala and make your way to the outflow spring. Players with level 47 Agility may walk east over the bridge, then head north to climb a set of rocks to reach the outflow spring. Players without level 47 Agility must use the western path and run all the way north towards the Teomat , then back around to the south-east of the exposed altar . If players have already built the Cam Torum landing site , they may also use Renu to fly to the Teomat and then run to the south-east of the exposed altar.

Once at the spring, a Sulphur Nagua will be wandering around the area. It is level 98 and hits twice per attack. Its attacks can be completely blocked using Protect from Melee . After killing it, return to Attala, who will agree to let you in with Zuma as long as you keep him in check. Enter Cam Torum through the entrance and travel all the way north to the ruins entrance. Speak to Jessamine and ask if you could be of any help with the dig. She will then give you permission to enter the city.

Remnants of the Old Ones [ edit | edit source ]

Enter the ruins to find yourself in an antechamber with a large black monolith in the centre. Speak to Attala , Zuma , and Jessamine , in that order. Jessamine will tell you that inscriptions on the murals are written in the language of the Old Ones , and ask you to help her set up camps in the surrounding caverns.

Take from the building supplies just to the west of Jessamine to obtain a hammer , saw , and three building supplies . To build the campsites, run to the cooking range symbol on the minimap in each of the following rooms, using entrances in the corners of the antechamber:

Cavern | Entrance

Earthbound Cavern | North-west

Streambound Cavern | North-east

Ancient Prison | South-west corner

Beware of aggressive Sulphur Nagua in the Ancient Prison.

Each time you build a campsite, your run energy will be fully restored. After building all three campsites, speak to Jessamine, who has finished translating the inscriptions. She will reveal that the ruins are called " Neypotzli ," and that emissaries of unknown origins have been sealed here. Ask what to do, and she will give you a water talisman and earth talisman , telling you that the power of "earth and streams" were used to seal the emissaries away. Attala will recognise the talismans, and ask that you bring them to Nahta .

Nahta runs the magic shop, The Runic Emporium , near the centre of the city and marked with a magic shop symbol . She will enchant the talismans to react to naguanil magic, and ask that you take them to the blacksmith .

Speak to the blacksmith, found north-east of Nahta, in the city's forge, and a cutscene will play in which he will infuse the talismans. Return to Neypotzli with the talismans and speak to Attala; she will instruct you to use the talismans to guide you towards the location (within the dungeon) where earth and water runic energy resonate the most. This location differs for each player.

Use the east/west pulling talisman to find the "column" and the north/south pulling talisman to find the "row" of the area you're searching in. Finding the location to travel to might require entering multiple doors. Use the world map to figure out possible connections between rooms. Rarely, it is possible to be required to go to the Lunar Chest 's room in order to find the correct location.

When you are at the correct location and attempt to click either talisman, a nagua named Eyatlalli will appear before you. She will tell you that Neypotzli is a prison created to seal the Moons of Peril , a trio of powerful nagua . The ground will then shake and she will disappear; return to the antechamber and talk to the group to find Zuma missing. Eyatlalli will reappear, telling you that the icosahedron has been disturbed and must be re-infused with a ritual.

If you didn't bring the required tools for the quest, enter the Earthbound Cavern and search the supply crates next to the campsites you set up earlier. Obtain the big fishing net , rope , pestle and mortar , and knife if needed.

With the tools, collect a moonlight grub from the grubby sapling found slightly up the path in the Streambound Cavern, and use the pestle and mortar to grind it into moonlight grub paste . Run slightly north-east, towards a fishing spot on the bridge, and catch a raw bream . Use the knife on it to obtain the bream scales .

Next, enter the Earthbound Cavern and head to the Hunter icon. Set a lizard trap on two adjacent rocks to create a trap between them, then rustle the bushes on either side of them until a moss lizard is caught. Use the knife on the raw moss lizard to obtain a moss lizard tail .

Return to Eyatlalli with all three items. The Eyatlalli is now located in the central antechamber, return and speak with Attala to continue the dialogue and then speak with the Eyatlalli with the items. The ritual will be set in motion, but she will need to have you distract the Moons of Peril whilst she does so. Now you have to defeat three nagua, which are dangerous and each have different mechanics.

The Moons of Peril [ edit | edit source ]

The three Moons of Peril must now be defeated. Each Moon is located in its own room within the dungeon. The Moons can be fought in any order.

Each Moon will appear in the centre of the room, surrounded by moon-shaped circles on the floor. One of the circles will be highlighted with Eyatlalli's protection; while attacking the boss, players must stand in the highlighted circle on the floor to prevent the boss from dealing constant damage every tick. Damage taken while not standing in the right place starts at 1 per tick, doubling over time up to 16. The circle highlighted with Eyatlalli's protection will move clockwise to the next circle every two attacks.

When Eyatlalli's protection reaches the full or empty moon circles on the floor, the Moon will spawn a special attack. Refer to the sections below for information on the special attacks for each Moon.

All of the Moons' standard attacks are melee-based, and each Moon is weak to different melee styles (listed below). However, they all have low Defence level (60), so players with high combat skills and decent melee gear should be able to take them out without needing to change styles. The moons have very high ranged and magic defence, and are immune to venom / poison . Protection prayers do not impact the damage taken in any way, and are thus unnecessary.

Throughout the fight, Prayer can be restored by catching moonlight moths with a butterfly net (75 Hunter ) or barehanded (85 Hunter) outside of the boss rooms in the Earthbound Cavern. Prior to heading in to each boss, you may restore your run energy at the camp and stock up on combat supplies. Raw moss lizards can be caught using rope on the rocks and cooked at the camp for a source of food. The amount of Hitpoints cooked moss lizards restore is 1/3rd of the player's Cooking level or 1/2 of their Hunter level, whichever heals less.

The Blue Moon can be found by taking the north-western path to the Earthbound Cavern. Once in the room, you can click on the Hunter icon on the minimap to run past the wyrmlings and down the stairs near the entrance of the boss room. Once ready, head into the room directly east of the Hunter icon to go into the room prior to the boss. The Moon is weak to crush .

Attack | Mechanics | Method

Weapon Freeze | The Moon unequips your weapon and puts it in a block of ice. Ice spikes will also spawn on the floor. | Punch the ice block to break it, avoiding the ice spikes that appear.

Brazier | The Moon extinguishes two braziers at the edges of the room, and spawns moving tornadoes which disable run energy. | Run to each brazier to light it (no tinderbox needed), avoiding the moving tornadoes.

Once the boss is defeated, you are teleported to a camp next to the room near the Blood Moon boss. If you log out while your weapon is taken during the weapon freeze phase, it will not be equipped when you log back in. To fix this, simply re-enter the fight.

The Blood Moon can be found by taking the south-western path to the Ancient Prison. The Moon is weak to slash . Contrary to some claims, it is fine to eat; this will not heal the boss.

Attack | Mechanics | Method

Raining Blood | The Moon will disappear and rain blood from above, forming pools of blood throughout the room. | Simply move off of the blood pools on the floor.

Blood Jaguar | Eight blood jaguars will spawn around the room, as well as a square of blood pools. | Run to the highlighted jaguar and attack it, remaining in the protected circle in front of it. Avoid damage by stepping one tile away from the jaguar (towards the boss) right before the jaguar attacks.

The Eclipse Moon can be found by taking the north-eastern path to the Streambound Cavern. Head upstairs past the camp, past the wooden bridge and go west at the fork to head to the boss room at the southern portion of the area. The Moon is weak to stab .

Attack | Mechanics | Method

Eclipse Shield | The Moon will spawn a moon shield and begins attacking rapidly with rays of light. The shield will move quickly around the boss in a circle. | Keep the moon shield between you and the boss to prevent damage from the attacks.

Mimic | You are teleported to the centre of the room and frozen in place. Clones of the Moon will spawn around you, attacking you. | Face your character toward each clone as it spawns to prevent damage. The simplest method is to click the tile below or behind each clone as it spawns.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Once all three Moons have been defeated, return to the Antechamber and speak with Attala, Zuma, and Jessamine. All of them must be talked to in order to proceed. Finish the quest by speaking with Eyatlalli.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 40,000 Slayer experience 5,000 Runecraft experience 5,000 Hunter experience 5,000 Fishing experience Access to Neypotzli and the Moons of Peril

In addition, completing the quest counts as a normal defeat of the Moons of Peril, allowing the player to loot the Lunar Chest for further rewards.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Lost to Time |  | 

The Moons of Ruin |  | 

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest. Click here for a transcript of the quest's journal entry.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

When talking to Jessamine about the murals, if the player has completed The Garden of Death , they will offer to help translate the language of the Old Ones. However, she will decline the offer. After placing the scales, lizard tail, and paste on their respective positions of the moon, Eyatlalli will ask the player for "one more small favour". The player will say, "Please, no...", which is a reference to One Small Favour . The player will say this even if they have not started that quest. [ confirmation needed ]

v • t • e Perilous Moons

NPCs | Builder Zuma Attala Jessamine Nahta Blacksmith Eyatlalli Enemies Blood Moon Blue Moon Eclipse Moon |  | Builder Zuma Attala Jessamine Nahta Blacksmith Eyatlalli | Enemies | Blood Moon Blue Moon Eclipse Moon

 | Builder Zuma Attala Jessamine Nahta Blacksmith Eyatlalli

Enemies | Blood Moon Blue Moon Eclipse Moon

Items | Building supplies Moss lizard tail Bream scales Moonlight grub paste Water talismans Regular Enchanted Infused Earth talismans Regular Enchanted Infused |  | Building supplies Moss lizard tail Bream scales Moonlight grub paste | Water talismans | Regular Enchanted Infused | Earth talismans | Regular Enchanted Infused

 | Building supplies Moss lizard tail Bream scales Moonlight grub paste

Water talismans | Regular Enchanted Infused

Earth talismans | Regular Enchanted Infused

Scenery | Building Supplies Camp spot Statue (Blood Moon) Statue (Blue Moon) Statue (Eclipse Moon)

Music | Lost to Time The Moons of Ruin

Related | Quick guide Transcript Journal Neypotzli