 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Plague City (#35)





Released | 27 August 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Elf , #1

Lead developer(s) | Paul Gower , Tom W



Plague City is the first quest of the Elf quest series . The quest investigates a plague that has affected West Ardougne .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Edmond , living next to the wall surrounding West Ardougne , north of Ardougne Castle . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Very Short

Description | The western part of Ardougne has been shut off as a deadly plague sweeps through the people. However, a young woman who went in to try to help those stricken by the illness has disappeared and her parents have become worried.

Requirements | None

Items required | Dwellberries (Spawns in McGrubor's Wood , squeeze through the loose railing, use A L S , or Telekinetic Grab them. They can be bought from Heckel Funch or Hudo in the Tree Gnome Stronghold or grown with 36 Farming .) Rope (Purchasable in the East Ardougne general store , Port Khazard general store , Ned , or a spawn in Karamja general store.) Spade (One spawns near Edmond.) 4 buckets of water (Can be used one-by-one, there is a water source and bucket spawn near Edmond) Hangover cure or the ingredients to make one: Chocolate dust Chocolate bar Knife or pestle and mortar Bucket of milk (Obtained by using a bucket on a dairy cow , one is north of Ardougne , or bought from Hudo or Heckel Funch .) Snape grass (Spawns west of the Crafting Guild or the peninsula north-east of Hosidius . It can be grown at 61 Farming . Can also be obtained from killing Tribesmen in Karamja .) Picture of Elena (Inside Alrena and Edmond's house)

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | The hangover cure can be made before the quest starts by combining milk, chocolate dust, and snape grass to conserve inventory space. The hangover cure itself is an untradeable item so if preparing for Group Ironman, do not premake these as you will be unable to share them with your group through Group Storage or Trading.

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Tirannwn ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting the quest [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Edmond behind his house, next to the wall surrounding West Ardougne , north of the Ardougne Castle . Ask him what happened to his daughter and offer to help. He'll tell you to talk to his wife about getting some sort of protection against the plague. His wife, Alrena , is inside the house or wandering outside. She'll tell you she can make a gas mask if you get her some dwellberries .

Dwellberries can be most easily found in McGrubor's Wood , which is north-east of Edmond's home. The area is fenced off, but can be entered via a loose railing found on the northern side. You can also purchase dwellberries from NPC vendors near the Grand Tree , or on the Grand Exchange . Give Alrena a bunch of dwellberries and she'll give you a mask. There are spare masks in the cupboard.

Make sure to take the Picture of Elena from inside the house while you're there.

Talk to Edmond again, and he'll tell you his plan to dig under the wall and get into West Ardougne . First, you'll need to soften the ground. Use your buckets of water on the mud patch behind his house (between the cabbages and potatoes). You can refill the bucket with the sink inside. Then use the spade on the softened ground.

You'll fall under and Edmond will follow you down. Walk south to find a pipe blocked by a grill . After pulling on it to no avail, use a rope on the pipe, and talk to Edmond to pull the grill off. Put on your gas mask and climb inside to go into West Ardougne.

Finding Elena [ edit | edit source ]

Once inside West Ardougne , talk to Jethick . He's just to the east (in the same plaza). Show him Elena 's picture and he'll tell you to go check the Rehnison house and give you a book that he borrowed from them. Go north to the house sitting right up against the edge of the wall, as shown on the map. The grey planks of the building set it apart. They'll let you in when you mention you have the book. Once inside, talk to Martha Rehnison or Ted Rehnison , then go upstairs and talk to their daughter, Milli Rehnison , who'll tell you more about Elena's disappearance and whereabouts.
Leave and go south past the town square near the southern wall to find the house with the big black "X" on the doors and a stairwell in the middle going down, marked with a black box on the map. Attempt to open the doors; the Mourners won't let you in because it's been hit hard by the plague. Tell them that you're looking for a kidnapped girl (you need to select the option to ask again or you cant continue), and they'll tell you you need permission from Bravek to enter the house.

Getting inside [ edit | edit source ]

Go back to the town square and into the large building on the north side, north of the manhole . Ask the clerk who is through the door, then tell him This is urgent though! Someone's been kidnapped! , and he'll let you inside to see Bravek . He can hardly talk to you however, as he's badly hung over. He'll give you a scruffy note with a recipe for a hangover cure . To make it, put the chocolate dust into the bucket of milk , then add snape grass ( Be careful: do not left-click on the chocolate bar or the chocolatey milk, or you will eat/drink them! ). Give the hangover cure to him, and tell him that the mourners won't listen to you. He'll then give you a warrant granting permission to enter the plague house and search for Elena .
Go to that house, and try to enter again. The Mourners will try to stop you, but when given the warrant from Bravek they'll be at a loss, giving you a chance to sneak inside. Once inside, search the barrel to the west of the staircase to find a small key . Elena is downstairs. Go downstairs and unlock the door with the key, talk to her to release her.

Return to Edmond's garden (where you started) by climbing down the manhole in the middle of the city, and climbing the mud pile . Talk to Edmond to finish the quest.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 2,425 Mining experience Ardougne teleport scroll , reading it unlocks the Ardougne Teleport with 51 Magic and use of the Ardougne teletab .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Plague City is required for the following:

Biohazard Ardougne Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Plague City

NPCs | Edmond Elena Alrena Jethick Mourner Head Mourner Bravek Clerk Rehnison Family Martha Ted Milli Billy |  | Edmond Elena Alrena Jethick Mourner Head Mourner Bravek Clerk | Rehnison Family | Martha Ted Milli Billy

 | Edmond Elena Alrena Jethick Mourner Head Mourner Bravek Clerk

Rehnison Family | Martha Ted Milli Billy

Items | Picture Book A scruffy note Hangover cure Warrant A small key

Rewards | Gas mask Ardougne teleport scroll

Locations | West Ardougne Ardougne Sewers

Music | The Cellar Dwellers

Related | Quick guide Transcript World Gate