 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Priest in Peril (#54)





Released | 29 June 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Myreque

Lead developer(s) | James B



Priest in Peril is the first quest to take place in Morytania , and is required to enter the region. At the command of King Roald , you must head to the temple of Paterdomus to aid the monk Drezel with recovering the temple.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to King Roald in the Varrock Palace . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Short

Description | Recently contact has been lost with the temple to Saradomin on Misthalins' Eastern border. King Roald would be very interested to know what has caused this lack of communication, and seeks an adventurer willing to report back to him on the situation.

Requirements | None

Items required | 50 unnoted rune essence or pure essence (can be mined by talking to Aubury in Varrock , after completing Rune Mysteries . All 50 essence does not have to be of the same type.) Bucket (spawns above the Varrock Castle's kitchen in the north-easternmost room (go to the kitchen, and climb up the stairs))

Recommended | 15 Combat level Essence pouches - optional, but helps carry more essence. Food (recommended for low levels) 3 Varrock teleports Stamina potions or (super) energy potions

Enemies to defeat | Temple guardian dog (level 30) You cannot use Magic . A Ring of recoil will not register that you killed the Temple guardian without inflicting at least 1 damage yourself. Monk of Zamorak (level 30). A Ring of recoil will not allow key drops without inflicting at least 1 damage yourself.

League notes | Unlocking Misthalin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Beginning the quest [ edit | edit source ]

Start this quest at Varrock Palace by talking to King Roald . He tells you that contact has been lost with the temple and wants you to go and check it out for him.

The temple is located east of Varrock . Go through the wooden gate north-east of the east exit by the Earth Altar. Then, follow the path to the temple. Click on the temple doors and someone will ask what you want and who you are. Tell them you are sent by King Roald. After some whispering they will ask you to kill a dog. Agree to it.

The dungeon [ edit | edit source ]

Climb down the dungeon entrance north of the temple, then kill the level 30 temple guardian . You cannot use Magic . The temple guardian can be safe-spotted using an inside corner of the room. Move one square east after coming down the ladder and attack the dog using ranged attacks. After killing the dog, go back up the ladder and talk to Drezel again to let him know that you killed the dog then return to the king in Varrock.

Dungeon rooms:

Ladder to the trapdoor at the surface. Entrance chamber with a level 30 temple guardian beast - The player must slay the beast during this quest. Main chamber of the mausoleum - The centre of the mausoleum has the graves of the Seven Priestly Warriors, as well as a well that supplies holy water from the River Salve . Staircase to the Columbarium. Gate to Drezel 's chamber. Drezel's chamber. Holy barrier holding back Morytanian invaders from entering the mausoleum.

Returning to King Roald [ edit | edit source ]

Head back to Varrock Palace , using a Varrock teleport (optional) and talk to King Roald again. King Roald becomes enraged, and explains that the dog was guarding the palace from attack. He instructs you to go back and fix it right away. If you don't have one, grab the bucket from above the kitchen, or buy one from the general store.

Back to the temple [ edit | edit source ]

Travel east, and knock on the temple door again. This time, the door swings open. Kill one of the level 30 Monks of Zamorak to get a golden key .

After receiving the key, climb up the stairs in the north-east corner of the room. Climb up the ladder of the south west corner of the room to reach the top floor, then talk to Drezel . Ask him why the river is such a good defence. Next, go back down the trap door into the dungeon. With the golden key in the inventory, the player can unlock the gate in the Paterdomus dungeon where the guardian was located earlier. Proceed through the gate and keep walking until you are in the monument room. In this room, there are seven monuments and a well . Study the monuments in order to find one holding an iron key , then use the golden key on that monument to swap the two keys. After obtaining the iron key, use your empty bucket on the nearby well to fill it with murky water .

Note: The player can swap any of the golden items with the regular version of that item. If desired, a pot , a feather , a candle , a tinderbox , a needle , and a hammer is needed, which can then be used on the correct monument holding that item. This cannot be done after completing Drezel has moved to the mausoleum. The golden items have no functional purpose (for example, the Golden tinderbox cannot be used to light fires), although they can be converted into coins with Low or High alchemy . Each golden item can only be obtained once per account .

Return to the top floor of the temple, and use the iron key on the cell door. Enter the cell and talk to Drezel to get him to bless the murky water. Use the blessed water on the coffin just outside of the cell to seal the vampyre within it. Talk to Drezel again and he will tell the player to meet him in the dungeon. If the player completely exhausts his dialogue, Drezel will move to the mausoleum and the golden items can no longer be obtained.

Return to the dungeon and proceed through the gate located in the north-east corner of the monument room. Speak to Drezel , who will will request 50 unnoted essence. If you need to, you can give him a mixture of both rune and pure essence . Players with essence pouches can bring all 50 essence in a single trip if desired. If you don't have an essence pouch , make multiple trips as needed.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Note: The player must talk to Drezel one more time to be able to pass the barrier to Morytania.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,406 Prayer experience Wolfbane dagger , prevents the citizens of Canifis from transforming into werewolves when attacked Route to Canifis and Morytania Completing this quest awards the player with 5 Kudos which can be claimed by talking to Historian Minas in the Varrock Museum .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Priest in Peril is required for the following:

Animal Magnetism Creature of Fenkenstrain Desert Treasure I Ghosts Ahoy Haunted Mine His Faithful Servants Making History Nature Spirit Rum Deal Shades of Mort'ton Wanted!

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

30 June 2020 – 18 October 2020 | King Roald no longer calls the player "mentally deficient" and now calls them a "complete imbecile".

24 March 2021 ( update ) | Quest points are now correctly awarded when Priest in Peril becomes complete, even if the player does not subsequently receive Drezel's warning about the perils of Morytania.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Drezel will appear in the Mausoleum before he escapes his cell, but is unreachable until he is freed. If you have a clue scroll which requires speaking with Drezel before you have met him in the Mausoleum, talking to him in the Mausoleum will trigger the clue scroll prior to proceeding with the quest.

v • t • e Priest in Peril

NPCs | King Roald Drezel Enemies Monk of Zamorak Temple Guardian |  | King Roald Drezel | Enemies | Monk of Zamorak Temple Guardian

 | King Roald Drezel

Enemies | Monk of Zamorak Temple Guardian

Items | Iron key Murky water Blessed water Golden key Golden feather Golden candle Golden hammer Golden needle Golden tinderbox Golden pot

Rewards | Wolfbane

Locations | Varrock Palace Paterdomus Temple

Music | Mausoleum

Miscellaneous | Quick guide Transcript