 | This quest has a quick guide and a speedrunning guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Prince Ali Rescue (#10)





Released | 28 February 2001 ( Update )

Members | No

Quest series | Kharidian , #1

Lead developer(s) | Rob L , Paul Gower



Prince Ali Rescue is a free-to-play quest , and one of the first released. It's notable for allowing entry through the Al Kharid / Lumbridge gate without the fee of 10 coins . It also introduces characters who are a part of the Kharidian quest series.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Hassan in the palace at Al Kharid . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Short

Description | Prince Ali of Al Kharid has been kidnapped by the scheming Lady Keli. You are hired to stage a rescue mission.

Requirements | The ability to get past aggressive combat level 26 jail guards .

Items required | Soft clay 3 balls of wool Yellow dye or 2 onions and 5 coins Redberries Ashes Bucket of water or jug of water (obtainable during quest) Pot of flour Bronze bar Pink skirt 3 beers Rope (can be bought during the quest at Ned for 18 coins or 4 balls of wool ) At least 100 coins

Recommended | 10 Combat level (Members only) Fast travel to Al Kharid ( Amulet of Glory or Ring of Dueling ) (Members only) Fast travel to Draynor Village ( Amulet of Glory or Necklace of Passage to Wizards' Tower)

Enemies to defeat | Jail guard (level 26, optional)

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Setting up (obtaining the required items) [ edit | edit source ]

Skip this part if you have all the required items.

You would ideally start in Varrock , where you would buy or withdraw from your bank the minor related items required. You also need a pickaxe to mine with, an axe for Woodcutting , and a tinderbox though you may find ashes from someone else's fire. If you can't find ashes already, cut a tree , light the logs , and then wait for it to burn out while banking the axe and tinderbox you no longer need. Alternatively, you can kill an elemental wizard . Bring your shears if you already have them to save time, otherwise get them from Fred the farmer 's house later on. You should also withdraw some cash to pay for the required items and toll gate crossings.

Buy the pink skirt at the clothes shop, then leave by the south city exit. Buy the 3 (or 4) beers at the Blue Moon Inn on the way out, or take some from the longhall in the Barbarian Village for free.

At the south-west Varrock mine , you can mine one clay , and then go to the sheep pen and shear three sheep. At the south-east Varrock mine , you can mine one tin and one copper ore to make a bronze bar , and pick one bunch of redberries from the nearby bushes.

If you have not already started the quest, then go south into the Al Kharid desert area, passing the Al Kharid mine , down to the palace and begin the quest; then, talk to Hassan and then Osman . If you did not bring a bucket or jug of water you can grab the jug of water off of the table in the east room of the palace. Otherwise, take the road north towards Lumbridge . Cross the north bridge to the forge, and smith a bronze bar there, or use the Al Kharid forge if you are there.

Go to Lumbridge Castle and spin all the wool. Take the jug from the kitchen and fill it with water if you didn't get the jug of water from the palace, then take a pot from the kitchen, and a bucket from the basement if you need them. Fill the bucket with water, wet the clay with it, then fill it again.

Follow the road north out of Lumbridge, then go to the Fred the Farmer 's house. Behind his house there is a garden with 12 onions . Pick two onions, then back to the road for the grain field and mill to make the pot of flour . If you didn't have shears earlier, get them from his house, shear 3 sheep and go back to Lumbridge Castle to spin the wool.

The rope can be bought at Ned's shop in Draynor Village .

At this point, you should now be carrying:

3 balls of wool (from shearing sheep and then spinning it at a spinning wheel) Ashes (make or find a fire, once it burns out pick up the ashes) A bucket of water or a jug of water ( bucket bought in any general store , filled at any water source) A pot of flour A bronze bar (made by smelting tin and copper ore ) Soft clay (use clay with a bucket, jug or bowl of water ) 2 onions (or 1 yellow dye ) and 15 coins 3 beers (normal beer, can be bought at the Sheared Ram in Lumbridge or the Rusty Anchor Inn in Port Sarim ) A pink skirt 1 redberries A rope

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 3 balls of wool , rope (unless buying from Ned ), 2 onions or yellow dye , 1 redberries , pot of flour , ashes , a bucket of water , soft clay , a bronze bar , 3 normal beers, a pink skirt, and 50 coins (unless teleporting).

You begin your quest in the palace of Al Kharid by talking to Chancellor Hassan . He will direct you to spymaster Osman , found outside the northern perimeter of the palace. He will tell you to find and speak to his daughter Leela , who can be found strolling east of Draynor Village just south of the wheat field. Talk to Leela and she will tell you what you need, you must ask about the key and disguise before you can proceed.

If you look west from where you are standing, you should see the door to Ned 's house. Ask Ned to make you a wig - get the wig made from the balls of wool . If you do not already have the rope at this point, you can have Ned make you one for four balls of wool (or you can buy one from him for 15 coins). Once you have the rope and wig, go into the house just west of Ned's, and ask Aggie (the witch) to make you paste . If you do not already have the dye, you can ask her to make it for you, requiring two onions and five coins. Dye the wig yellow.

Go in to the jail directly east of Draynor as quickly as possible, avoiding the aggressive level 26 jail guards . They will ignore you if your combat level is 53 or higher.

Once inside the jail building, speak to Lady Keli , telling her she's famous all over Gielinor , then ask her about her latest plan, and that she must have been very skillful. Ask her then if she's sure his people won't try and rescue him. Ask her if you can see the key and then if you can touch the key for a short amount of time. If you've gotten the soft clay with you, you will make an imprint in the clay.

Go to the bank and get the bronze bar and 20 coins and return to Osman so he can make the bronze key.

Saving the Prince [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 3 beers , rope , a pink skirt , a wig (dyed yellow), and paste .

Talk to Leela , who will be happy about the plan and hand you the bronze key. She will then recommend that you talk to the witch for the paste, if you have all the ingredients talk to Leela once again and then head for the jail. Talk to Joe and offer him a drink, (be aware that only normal beer will work and you must have 3 beers in your inventory) until he is drunk. Use the rope on Lady Keli , the key on the cell door, then talk to Prince Ali and he will use the disguise and escape.

After freeing the Prince, return to Lumbridge, and pass through the gate that connects Lumbridge and Al Kharid. You can pass through this gate free of charge from now on. Go and talk to Hassan in the Al Kharid palace to claim your reward.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 700 coins Free passage through the Lumbridge - Al Kharid toll gate from now on. (Members) Access to the Sorceress's Garden Thieving minigame . (Members) Use of the window shortcut at the rear of Al Kharid Palace (requires 70 Agility ).

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Prince Ali Rescue is required for the following:

Contact!

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

27 April 2022 ( update ) | Dialogue pertaining to the quest was rewritten to flow better, and potentially offensive dialogue has been removed.

v • t • e Prince Ali Rescue

NPCs | Prince Ali ( disguised ) Chancellor Hassan Osman Leela Ned Aggie Joe Lady Keli Jail guard

Items | Key print Bronze key Paste Wig Yellow dye Pink skirt

Related | Quick guide ( speedrunning ) Transcript ( historical ) Al Kharid gate