 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Ratcatchers (#93)





Released | 28 November 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Chris J



Ratcatchers is a quest in which you help various people with rat-related problems. The quest introduces the Rat Pits , a collection of underground arenas where cats train and fight.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Gertrude west of Varrock . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | Gertrude knows of some ratcatchers in Varrock, pay her a visit and she may tell you of their whereabouts. Perhaps they could show you and your cat a few pointers about rat catching.
Enter the subterranean world of the rat catchers and discover more of your cat's true potential.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Icthlarin's Little Helper Gertrude's Cat Access to Keldagrim The Giant Dwarf started

Items required | Any type of cat or hellcat (for most of the quest, a cat with a high successful rat catch rate is recommended, and overgrown cats cannot be used there -- during the Hooknosed Jack part of the quest, any cat with strong combat stats is recommended) 4 cheese (or 4 Poisoned cheese ) Rat poison (if cheese is not already poisoned; can be found in the Clock Tower Basement ), or made during the quest with the following items: Empty vial Cleaned kwuarm (grimy will not work; Zahur in Nardah cleans grimy herbs for 200 coins) Red spiders' eggs Cleaned marrentill (grimy will not work) Unicorn horn dust Bucket of milk Catspeak amulet (unless Dragon Slayer II is completed) Pot of weeds (use an empty pot with weeds ) Tinderbox 101 coins (or 51 coins with a ring of charos (a) ) Snake charm (obtained from The Feud or during the quest) 1 free inventory space

Recommended | Some fish to heal your cat (any type of raw or cooked fish will do including raw karambwanji , except leaping trout / leaping salmon ; 8-10 recommended) Ring of charos (a) to spend fewer coins on Ali the Snake Charmer Fast travel to several locations Varrock ( Varrock teleport , Chronicle or Combat Bracelet to the Champions' Guild) Port Sarim ( Rimmington teleport , Teleport to House if your house is in Rimmington, Explorer's Ring 2 , Amulet of Glory to Draynor Village, Skills Necklace to the Crafting Guild or Fairy Rings to A I Q ) Pollnivneach ( Pollnivneach teleport , Teleport to House if your house is in Pollnivneach or Magic Carpet transport) Ardougne ( Ardougne teleport ) Keldagrim ( Blast Furnace grouping teleport, Varrock teleport , Ring of Wealth to the Grand Exchange or Fairy rings to D K S or D K R )

Enemies to defeat | None, but your cat will have to fight the King rat

League notes | Impossible to complete, as it requires visits to Asgarnia ✓ , Desert ✓ , Kandarin ✓ , and Fremennik ✓

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Talk with Gertrude . She will tell you to speak to Phingspet and Grimesquit . They can be found in the Varrock Sewers . After speaking with them briefly, your cat will have to catch eight rats before they will speak to you more. To find out how many rats you've caught, check your quest journal or speak to either of them and they will tell you.

Note: You must have the two sniff your cat before starting to have it chase rats, or they will not count!

Alternatively, a conversation box will pop up when you've caught the eight rats. The success rate of catching rats seems to take into account the proximity of the rat, so if you're using a kitten it may be worth attacking one to turn it aggressive to you, which in turn will keep it close. This trick will not work for rats later in the quest.

Catch eight rats in Varrock Sewers by clicking the "Chase" option on your cat. Then, speak to them again to receive a rat pole , and they will send you to talk to Jimmy Dazzler in Ardougne .

Jimmy Dazzler [ edit | edit source ]

Note: Be prepared to spend some time on this part unless you get extremely lucky. The guards simply having their backs turned is not enough to keep you from being seen.

Jimmy Dazzler can be found in a house to the west of the Flying Horse Inn in East Ardougne on the west side of the river. He needs a house cleared of rats in an unofficial capacity so as not to tarnish his client's reputation; to this end, you will need to sneak around the house unnoticed, avoiding the guards who will think you are an intruder. Jimmy will give you Directions to follow to the house. Read them, and you will be prompted to go to the house (it is not located on the world map — you are teleported there instantly). You will find yourself in front of the house, in the gardens.

To make your way inside the house, you will need to make sure you don't draw the guards' attention; keeping Run on is advised and having lots of patience will help greatly. Guards will not notice your cat. There are three "checkpoints"; upon reaching these points, any guards who see you will send you back to these points, rather than the very beginning.

The red and blue tiles indicate where the guards stop along their paths. Note that the guards retrace their steps and stop at each spot on their return. For example, the south guard goes along the path (1-2-3-2-1).

Start at tile A . When the south guard is on blue tile 1 , run to tile B . Immediately run to tile C .

Note that when the north guard would normally move from their position at tile 7, they will instead teleport to tile 5.

Start at tile A . When the south guard is at blue tile 1 and the north guard is on any red tile 1-4 , run to tile B . When the north guard is on any red tile 4-7 , run to tile C . While the north guard is still on any red tile 4-7 , run to tile D and climb the trellis, then immediately move to tile A in Part 3 below, if not caught. Climbing the trellis will set a safe checkpoint north of the trellis.

For this section, it's recommended to go into your Settings , then "All Settings" and enable the option "Hide Roofs" under the Display category. This will make it a lot easier to see the guards as they move around while you attempt to move inside the mansion.

Note: If the guards follow a pattern that will never allow passage, you are required to either switch worlds or get caught by the same guard several times.

For this section, it is recommended to keep your cat in your inventory while moving about to avoid it becoming stuck on obstacles, or else use the 'Call follower' option in the equipment tab to teleport your cat to you.

Starting from tile A , when the west guard is on any blue tile 6-7 and the east guard is on any red tile 4-7 , run to tile B and go through the door. Catch the rat in this room. Make sure you are not standing in the doorway when the guard passes by. When the west guard is on any blue tile 6-7 and the east guard is on any red tile 5-7 , run to tile A . When the west guard is on any blue tile 4-7 and the east guard is on any red tile 6-7 , run to tile C and go through the door, again making sure you are not standing in the doorway when the guard passes by. Alternatively for steps 3-4, get caught and start at the tile that mirrors A, then mirror previous steps. When the west guard is on any blue tile 1 or 3-6 and the east guard is on red tile 1 , run to tile D . Catch the 2 rats in this room and go down the ladder. There will be no more guards once you go down the ladder. Catch the last 3 rats in this room and the kitchen to the north. 1 rat may spawn outside of this room/kitchen, simply change world and the rat will be correctly spawn in the room.

To proceed, all six rats need to have been caught. You will automatically start a dialogue with your cat after catching the last rat.

Once you catch all six rats, teleport out of the mansion and return to Jimmy Dazzler. Alternatively, you can return to Ardougne by sneaking back to the trellis. He will give you access to the Ardougne Rat Pits and tell you about the next person you have to find: Hooknosed Jack .

Hooknosed Jack [ edit | edit source ]

You can find Hooknosed Jack in south-eastern Varrock (look for the minigame icon). He will tell you about the rat infestation in a warehouse nearby. You need rat poison, or he can make you some if you give him a vial, red spiders' eggs, and a kwuarm. Use the poison on four pieces of cheese to create poisoned cheese ; then, go to the warehouse south of the pub. Go in and climb the ladder to the top. Use your poisoned cheese on the four rat holes to poison them. Return to Hooknosed Jack.

He will tell you that his cat, Pox, ate some of the poisoned rats. Go to the Apothecary (the potion shop in west Varrock). He will ask for a marrentill herb, a crushed unicorn horn, and a bucket of milk to make a special cat antipoison . Give the antipoison to Hooknosed Jack to cure Pox, who will then tell you that there is still one rat left - the biggest and most evil. Go back to the warehouse. Climb upstairs and inside a room, you'll see the King rat , but you won't be able to reach it yourself. If your cat disappears log out and back in.

Ensure that you have enough fish (8-10 recommended). Use your cat on the hole in the wall (not the rat holes) to challenge the king rat. You will be presented with two dialogue options:

"Be careful!" : Your cat will automatically retreat if it has only one hitpoint remaining, allowing you to restart the fight. (The King rat will regain its hp.) "Don't hold back!" : Your cat will continue fighting until it or the rat dies. Warning : Not recommended due to the potential risk of losing your cat.

You can always withdraw and pull back your cat by climbing down the stairs, or by calling it via the worn equipment tab.

The king rat has 10 hitpoints and deals a maximum of 1 damage at a time. Your cat has combat stats according to its type. Whenever your cat takes too much damage, you can use fish on the hole in the wall ( not on the cat itself ) to heal it.

After you defeat the King rat, go back to Hooknosed Jack. He'll give you access to the Varrock Rat Pits and tell you about Smokin' Joe .

Smokin' Joe [ edit | edit source ]

Go to Keldagrim (you can use the minecart entrance north-west of the Grand Exchange , the Blast Furnace minigame teleport , or the city's entrance east of Rellekka ) and talk to Smokin' Joe east of the pickaxe shop (far in the east of Keldagrim), who will tell you about his rat problem. (Note that you must have at least started The Giant Dwarf in order to access the city.) The only way to get the rats out of their hole is to smoke them out, but Smokin' Joe can't do it because of the poor condition of his lungs. Offer to help him. Light a pot of weeds with your tinderbox, and use it on the rat hole to the east of him. Rats will come out the other side and quickly go back in. Place your cat on the ground and wear your catspeak amulet, then use your smouldering pot on the rat hole again, and your cat will offer to help. Accept, and your cat will ambush the rats and kill them. Talk to Smokin' Joe again, and he will give you access to the Keldagrim Rat Pits and tell you about The Face .

The Face and Felkrash [ edit | edit source ]

You can find The Face in Port Sarim next to the fishing shop (look for the minigame icon). She will tell you to talk to Felkrash down in the rat pits. Go down the manhole and find Felkrash, who will tell you to get rid of all of Port Sarim's vermin at once.

Talk to The Face and ask the third option she will tell you about a snake charmer in Pollnivneach .

Note: You have to talk with The Face before heading to Pollnivneach, else the snake charmer will not discuss the alternate methods of animal charming.

Go to Pollnivneach in the Kharidian Desert . You will find Ali (or Badir) the Snake Charmer there south of the bar. Use a coin on his money pot to get his attention. Ask him about charming other animals, and he will tell you that he and Felkrash had a falling out because of Felkrash's killing of animals. When presented with multiple-choice dialogue, offer him some money . Tell him you don't care about his offer and walk away slowly until you get the option to stop . He will reluctantly give you a music scroll and snake charm for 100 coins (if you already have a snake charm from The Feud quest in your inventory or bank, you will not receive another). You can charm him with the ring of charos to lower his price to 50 coins, and also skip the walking away part.

Return to Port Sarim and stand near the docks. Compose the tune on the snake charm in the order that you can find on your music scroll (as seen in the screenshot; D, G, E, F#, (raise octave D), B, C#, A). One note is selected per page, note that the fifth note is an octave higher, which requires pressing the Raise an Octave button on the top left of the scroll. Once you're done, click "PLAY". Note: You cannot play the tune unless you have gotten the music scroll from Ali (or Badir) the Snake Charmer. If you try, you'll get a message that your fingers are not dexterous enough to play the tune.

Your character will proceed to play the song, which will charm the rats. You'll see a cutscene where you lead the rats into the ocean. Talk to Felkrash in the Port Sarim Rat Pits to finish the quest.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 4,500 Thieving experience A rat pole The ability to train overgrown cats into wily and lazy cats . The ability to name your wily or lazy cat (up to six letters long). Access to the Rat Pits . The ability to use the Grouping teleport to the rat pits in Port Sarim , Ardougne , Varrock , and Keldagrim .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Ratcatchers is required for the following:

Medium Falador Diary (partial completion required - Requires most of the quest)

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

26 June 2024 ( update ) | Improved dialogue and other text.

9 November 2022 ( update ) | The rats are now easier for cats to catch. Cats now run away when they reach 1 HP in their fight against the King Rat rather than fighting to the death - this only works if you select the option to tell your cat to be careful during the fight. If you select the 'don't hold back' option, your cat will fight to the death. The guards in the mansion segment are now easier to anticipate, and they won't have difficult pathing rotations.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Just before your cat kills the smoked-out mice in Keldagrim , it will say "Exterminate! Exterminate!", which is a reference to the Daleks in the British science-fiction show Doctor Who . Sometimes a guard will say "I miss Billy and Bob *sigh*". This is a reference to the guards killed during the cutscene of the Garden of Tranquillity quest, where you were stealing the statue of Saradomin . It doesn't matter if you have started the quest or not. The cutscene in Port Sarim in which the rats are lured away with the help of the flute, is a reference to the German legend of the Pied Piper of Hamelin . Felkrash states that seagulls are "too flighty" to be central characters, this is likely a reference to the book Jonathan Livingston Seagull , where the main character is a seagull learning new ways to fly. If the player has completed Dragon Slayer II and unlocked the ability to talk to cats without a catspeak amulet, the quest will allow you to help Smokin' Joe without the amulet. Ratcatchers is generally considered to be one of Old School 's weakest quests by both the community and the development team. Commonly criticised aspects include the writing and the frustrating mechanics of the mansion maze and cat fight. [1] [2]

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Ratcatchers

NPCs | Gertrude Grimesquit Phingspet Jimmy Dazzler Hooknosed Jack Smokin' Joe The Face Felkrash Ali the Snake Charmer Apothecary King rat Gamer Mansion Attendants Guard Councillor Halgrive Spice seller Ali Morrisane Silk merchant Zenesha Silver merchant Ceril Carnillean Fur trader Gem merchant Cats Trotters Bones Pox The Beast Bellemorde |  | Gertrude Grimesquit Phingspet Jimmy Dazzler Hooknosed Jack Smokin' Joe The Face Felkrash Ali the Snake Charmer Apothecary King rat Gamer | Mansion Attendants | Guard Councillor Halgrive Spice seller Ali Morrisane Silk merchant Zenesha Silver merchant Ceril Carnillean Fur trader Gem merchant | Cats | Trotters Bones Pox The Beast Bellemorde

 | Gertrude Grimesquit Phingspet Jimmy Dazzler Hooknosed Jack Smokin' Joe The Face Felkrash Ali the Snake Charmer Apothecary King rat Gamer

Mansion Attendants | Guard Councillor Halgrive Spice seller Ali Morrisane Silk merchant Zenesha Silver merchant Ceril Carnillean Fur trader Gem merchant

Cats | Trotters Bones Pox The Beast Bellemorde

Items | Cat antipoison Directions Music scroll Poisoned cheese Pot of weeds Smouldering pot Rat poison Book (Ratpits)

Rewards | Rat pole Rat Pits

Locations and scenery | Locations Ratcatchers Mansion Varrock Port Sarim East Ardougne Rat Pits Scenery Stale beer barrel Money Pot | Locations | Ratcatchers Mansion Varrock Port Sarim East Ardougne Rat Pits | Scenery | Stale beer barrel Money Pot

Locations | Ratcatchers Mansion Varrock Port Sarim East Ardougne Rat Pits

Scenery | Stale beer barrel Money Pot

Music | The Noble Rodent Rat Hunt Bubble and Squeak Sarim's Vermin Rat a Tat Tat Catch Me If You Can

Miscellaneous | Quick guide