 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Another Cook's Quest (#100.1)





Released | 15 March 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | James B (framework)



Another Cook's Quest [ edit | edit source ]

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | The Cook in Lumbridge Castle 's kitchen.

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Short

Description | The cook in Lumbridge has a surprisingly small number of ingredients to hand in his kitchen, possibly as a result of an endless stream of newcomers with light fingers taking anything that isn't nailed down from his kitchen. Luckily, in the past a kind Cook's Assistant was willing to help him in his culinary duties, but now a problem has appeared that could spell... a Recipe For Disaster! Almost all members may attempt to solve his tricky predicament, and be rewarded accordingly, but only the very elite of Questers will be able to put an end to his problem permanently!

Requirements | 10 Cooking ( not boostable ) Completion of Cook's Assistant

Items required | Eye of newt Greenman's ale Rotten tomato Any fruit blast excluding a premade fr' blast Ashes

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Fremennik ✓ or Varlamore ✓ — location requirement for Greenman's ale Examiners will provide a level 3 certificate on request so that a fruit blast may be obtained Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Morytania ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: An eye of newt , a greenman's ale , a rotten tomato , ashes , and a fruit blast (or 8 gold and a knife ).

The Cook tells you that he needs a newt's eye , a Greenman's ale , a rotten tomato , and a dirty blast in order to prepare for the centennial feast. If you ask him how to make a dirty blast, he will tell you to add ashes to a fruit blast . He will give you 100 coins to buy everything, and he will allow you to keep the change.

An eye of newt can be bought from Herblore shops or Betty's Magic Emporium in Port Sarim . Greenman's ale is sold in Yanille at the Dragon Inn bar for 10 coins. A rotten tomato can be bought from a Pelters' Veg Stall near pillory cages in Varrock , Seers' Village , Yanille , and Hosidius or Shop of Distaste at the Emir's Arena for 1 coin. A fruit blast can be bought from the Grand Exchange or chosen as a reward when handing in Digsite exam certificates to Curator Haig Halen in Varrock after completion of The Dig Site . All of the ingredients required to make one can be obtained in the Gnome Stronghold from Hudo . Warning: A premade fr' blast will not work. Burn a fire for ashes or kill an elemental wizard , then add them to the fruit blast for a dirty blast .

Go to the cocktail bar (north-west corner of the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of the Grand Tree ) and pick up the cocktail shaker spawn on the table. Buy 2 lemons , 1 pineapple , and 1 orange from Hudo . Run over to where Heckel Funch is (in the south-east corner) to find a Cocktail glass spawn. Mix the cocktail shaker and select "Fruit Blast." Use a knife to slice (not dice ) the remaining lemon , then pour your cocktail shaker to create a fruit blast . Finally, use the ashes on the fruit blast to make the dirty blast .

Once you have all 4 items, give them to the Cook. Enter the dining room to open up the rest of Recipe for Disaster .

Congratulations, quest complete! ( for now... )

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point The invitation to the feast of a lifetime! Access to the Culinaromancer's Chest (after watching the cut scene in the feast room).

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article has an associated transcript page. Click here for the transcript.

v • t • e Another Cook's Quest

 | Subquest of Recipe for Disaster

NPCs | Cook Franizzard Van Lumbcook Mysterious Old Man Evil Bob Blurberry Culinaromancer Lumbridge Secret Council Mountain Dwarf Osman Aris General Wartface General Bentnoze Pirate Pete Lumbridge Guide Evil Dave Skrach Uglogwee Sir Amik Varze Awowogei Duke Horacio |  | Cook Franizzard Van Lumbcook Mysterious Old Man Evil Bob Blurberry Culinaromancer | Lumbridge Secret Council | Mountain Dwarf Osman Aris General Wartface General Bentnoze Pirate Pete Lumbridge Guide Evil Dave Skrach Uglogwee Sir Amik Varze Awowogei Duke Horacio

 | Cook Franizzard Van Lumbcook Mysterious Old Man Evil Bob Blurberry Culinaromancer

Lumbridge Secret Council | Mountain Dwarf Osman Aris General Wartface General Bentnoze Pirate Pete Lumbridge Guide Evil Dave Skrach Uglogwee Sir Amik Varze Awowogei Duke Horacio

Items | Dirty blast

Locations | Lumbridge

Music | Chef Surprise

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide