 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Freeing Skrach Uglogwee (#100.9)





Released | 15 March 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | James B (framework)



Freeing Skrach Uglogwee [ edit | edit source ]

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Inspect Skrach Uglogwee .

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Medium

Description | To protect Skrach Uglogwee from the Culinaromancer, you need to feed him a cooked jubbly bird, the most delicious type of Chompy in the Feldip Hills. You need to talk to Rantz to learn how to get one.

Requirements | 41 Cooking ( boostable ) 20 Firemaking ( boostable ) Completion of the following quests: Big Chompy Bird Hunting Recipe for Disaster/Another Cook's Quest Cook's Assistant

Items required | Axe (a blessed axe will not work) Raw chompy (bring several if you have a low cooking level) Iron spit (made on an anvil with an iron bar ) Logs (can be obtained during the quest) Tinderbox Pickaxe Ogre bellows (can be obtained during the quest) Ball of wool Ogre bow or comp ogre bow (can be purchased from Rantz during the quest for at most 600 coins ) Ogre arrows Chisel, knife, wolf bones and feathers if you are making your own ogre arrows ( Brutal arrows also work if using a comp ogre bow)

Recommended | Antipoison , armour and some food (if low leveled) Chisel , knife , wolf bones and feathers if you are making your own ogre arrows Fast travel to several locations Lumbridge ( Lumbridge teleport ) Feldip Hills ( Feldip Hills teleport , Fairy Rings to A K S or the Eagle Transport System ) Tai Bwo Wannai ( Tai Bwo Wannai teleport , Fairy Rings to C K R or travel via Brimhaven )

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | 17 Smithing ( boostable ) for an iron spit without access to Weiss

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Inspect Skrach Uglogwee to start the quest . Head to the Feldip Hills (fairy ring code A K S ) and talk to Rantz . He will tell you that he wants to travel to Karamja to make some type of potion , but before that, he wants you to meet him south-east of his cave. Walk directly south-east towards the transportation symbol on your map. Talk to him again, go through the dialogue; he will kick over a tree and ask you to make it into a boat. Use your axe on it twice to make a boat. Talk to Rantz again and he will shoot an arrow to a tree on Karamja. Talk to him once more and he will tell you to cook a chompy there for good luck. If you don't have any raw chompies , kill a chompy bird or two and gather the raw chompies before you leave. If you didn't bring Logs, chop down a normal tree in the area to get one log.

Travel to Karamja:

If you have used the fairy ring tele (Karamja is C K R ) then make your way west towards the coastline and then north up the coast until you find a tree with an arrow in it. There are also dead trees to the west coastline if you still need a log. If you have travelled to Brimhaven, travel south past the general store and hug the west coastline.

The tree with the arrow in it is north-west of Tai Bwo Wannai village, just north of Banisoch , who is marked with a dungeon icon - the tree is denoted by the Transportation icon.

Make a fire next to the tree, and then, use your iron spit on a chompy and cook it. If you succeed, Rantz's kids will take the boat to you and take you back.

Rantz will tell you to make a balloon toad to use as bait, to catch the Jubbly bird . (The Rantz near the water, there are two versions of him)

Note: Purchasing jubbly from the Grand Exchange will not work. You will be met with the message "You need to cook your own jubbly meat to set Skrach free."

Fill your bellows up on the swamp—then, use them on a toad. You should get around three toads just to be sure, because the next part can fail. Mine the same amount of rocks as you have toads to the west of the swamp, just north of the Fairy Ring, to get a "rock". There is also a mining spot next to Rantz's cave. With the rock and ball of wool in your inventory, inflate the bellows with swamp gas again; then, use them on your already inflated toad to create a balloon toad . The ball of wool is not consumed upon its creation, but there is a small chance that it will get used up as you create more balloon toads. Drop the balloon toad south of Rantz's cave or east of the gnome glider .

Now, wait for the Jubbly bird (level 9). If it doesn't appear, you'll have get another balloon toad (If you're having trouble getting a Jubbly bird to spawn, log out and log back in. Note: Logging out will make you unable to attack the bird if it spawns). When it appears, kill it with your ogre bow . Then pluck it, take the meat, and cook it on Rantz' ogre spit . (Near Rantz's cave) Go back to Lumbridge Castle and then carefully right-click and use the cooked jubbly on Skrach Uglogwee. If you eat it, you'll have to get another one. Killing and cooking multiple jubblies may be beneficial in the event that you burn/accidentally eat some.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,500 Woodcutting experience 1,500 Cooking experience 1,500 Crafting experience 1,500 Ranged experience The ability to use the boat trip to travel between Karamja and the Feldip Hills (you must pay a fee of chompies or exotic herbs) Further access to the Culinaromancer's Chest

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article has an associated transcript page. Click here for the transcript.

v • t • e Freeing Skrach Uglogwee

 | Subquest of Recipe for Disaster

NPCs | Skrach Uglogwee Rantz Bugs Fycie Ogre boat Monsters Jubbly bird |  | Skrach Uglogwee Rantz Bugs Fycie Ogre boat | Monsters | Jubbly bird

 | Skrach Uglogwee Rantz Bugs Fycie Ogre boat

Monsters | Jubbly bird

Items | Balloon toad Skewered chompy Raw jubbly Cooked jubbly Burnt jubbly

Locations and scenery | Feldip Hills Karamja Ogre spit-roast Crude boat

Music | Chompy Hunt Grumpy

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide