 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Freeing the Mountain Dwarf (#100.2)





Released | 15 March 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | James B (framework)



Freeing the Mountain dwarf [ edit | edit source ]

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Inspect the frozen dwarf in the Lumbridge Castle dining room to start the quest.

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Short

Description | To save the dwarf, you will need a special dwarven rock cake. Only his father in the tunnel under White Wolf Mountain knows how to make one.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Another Cook's Quest Cook's Assistant Fishing Contest The ability to defeat a level 13 icefiend if you don't have the ice gloves .

Items required | Bucket of milk (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Pot of flour (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's chest) Egg (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's chest) Bowl of water (a bowl and sink can be found in the kitchen of Lumbridge Castle ) 4 Asgarnian ales (can be bought during the quest at the Rising Sun Inn in Falador ) Recommended to bring at least 2 additional ales in case Rohak sobers up 306 coins (300 + 1 coin per ale, 100 instead of 300 if you choose to bring an activated ring of charos ) Bring additional coins if buying the other ingredients or bringing additional ales Gloves , If not using gloves make sure to bring Telekinetic Grab spell runes ( Ice gloves are the best, but other gloves will work fine too )

Recommended | Fast travel to several locations Falador ( Falador teleport ) Lumbridge ( Lumbridge teleport ) White Wolf Mountain ( Taverley teleport , Teleport to House if your house is in Taverley, Camelot teleport or a Gnome Glider ) Ice Mountain, if you have no access to ice gloves ( Combat bracelet to Monastery or Skull Sceptre Additional ingredients (bucket of milk, pot of flour and egg—in case you drop or lose the cake)

Enemies to defeat | Icefiend (level 13) (only if you lack ice gloves )

League notes | & — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 316 coins , a bucket of milk , flour , an egg , a bowl of water , gloves ( ice gloves recommended), and 2 Falador teleports (1 if you have ice gloves).

Inspect the frozen dwarf in the Lumbridge Castle dining room to start the quest.

Go to Falador , and talk to any of the three barmaids in the Rising Sun Inn next to the west bank. Ask her about dwarves and ale. She will offer to tell you the secret recipe for Asgoldian ale for the price of 200 Coins (free with an activated ring of Charos , only 100 coins if you give her a plain pizza , or only 50 coins if you give her a chocolate bar ). She will tell you to add a gold coin to an Asgarnian ale to get an Asgoldian ale. Buy four (4) (or six) Asgarnian ales from her (or go to The Toad and Chicken pub in Burthorpe and pick up the ales for free), then add a coin to each one as per the secret recipe.

Go to the tunnel under White Wolf Mountain (a Camelot teleport or games necklace are useful for a short walk). You will see an old dwarf in the bar area. Talk to him. He will refuse to bake a dwarven rock cake for you, but he'll mention the Rising Sun Inn.

Use the Asgoldian ales on Rohak. Quickly give them to him to get him drunk, or he will sober up and you will need to get more Asgoldian ales again.

He will agree to make you a dwarven rock cake for 100 gold. Give him your bucket of milk , egg , flour , and bowl of water , and he will put the hot cake on the table next to you. You will need to cool it down before you can give it to the Dwarf back in Lumbridge . Warning: trying to pick up the cake without any gloves on will cause damage and the rock cake will drop to the ground. Wearing normal gloves avoids damage but the rock cake still needs to cool.

If you have ice gloves equipped, picking up the cake cools it immediately. If you've forgotten to equip your ice gloves, you can still pick it up with any other gloves (otherwise it will likely despawn before you can bank and return and you will need to bring Rohak with all of the ingredients again), so simply bring it to a bank, drop it there, and pick it up again with ice gloves on.

Without ice gloves, you have to kill an icefiend with the rock cake in your inventory. The other option is to leave it in the bank, though you will have to wait several hours for it to cool down. You can find icefiends on Ice Mountain , west of the Edgeville Monastery .

Once you have cooled the rock cake, return to the Lumbridge castle and use it on the frozen dwarf.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,000 Slayer experience 1,000 Cooking experience Further access to the Culinaromancer's Chest Ability to obtain additional dwarven rock cakes from Rohak for either 100 coins or the raw ingredients

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Freeing the Mountain Dwarf

 | Subquest of Recipe for Disaster

NPCs | Mountain Dwarf Rohak Emily Kaylee Tina Monsters Icefiend Ice Queen |  | Mountain Dwarf Rohak Emily Kaylee Tina | Monsters | Icefiend Ice Queen

 | Mountain Dwarf Rohak Emily Kaylee Tina

Monsters | Icefiend Ice Queen

Items | Asgoldian ale Dwarven rock cake Ice gloves

Locations | Ice Queen's Lair

Music | Ice Melody

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide