Defeating the Culinaromancer (#100.10)





Released | 15 March 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | James B (framework)



Defeating the Culinaromancer [ edit | edit source ]

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Release each member of the council from the Culinaromancer's spell.

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Short

Description | The Culinaromancer has retreated through the portal back to his own dimension, where he'll be ready to cause more trouble. Aris has said that you too must go through the portal to finish him off.

Requirements | 175 Quest points ( required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Desert Treasure I The Dig Site Temple of Ikov The Tourist Trap Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Priest in Peril Waterfall Quest Horror from the Deep Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl miniquest Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing King Awowogei The ability to defeat all enemies without Prayer

Items required | Ice gloves for defeating Flambeed Menaphite remedy or restore potions since Karamel will lower your stats Certain armour and weapons for each boss Good healing food, such as sharks

Enemies to defeat | Agrith-Na-Na (level 146) Flambeed (level 149) Karamel (level 136) Dessourt (level 121) Gelatinnoth Mother (level 130) Culinaromancer (level 75)

League notes | Impossible to start

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

After you have freed all the council members, you will see a cutscene , where Aris restarts time by saying "Tempus procedit!" The Culinaromancer will then retreat through the portal back to his own dimension, where he'll be ready to cause more trouble. Aris then says that you too must go through the portal to finish him off.

When you're in the strange dimension, you'll find the Culinaromancer, a few white portals that lead back to Lumbridge , and one of your previous quest bosses. The Culinaromancer is too strong to be defeated until you've defeated the first five bosses. Prayer cannot be used in this dimension.

Note: You can leave and stock up after defeating each boss without losing your place in the fight.

Agrith-Na-Na is Agrith Naar from the Shadow of the Storm quest, but he is now made of bananas and is level 146. He uses melee up close and Fire Blast at a distance. Kill him however you like, with food.

Flambeed is Fareed from Desert Treasure I . He's level 149 now. You need ice gloves to wield a weapon. If you attack him without ice gloves, your weapon will return to your inventory. He's harder to defeat without prayer , but you should be able to kill him with plenty of high healing food. You can snare him, run away, and then mage him so you only use little to no food. He drops cakes .

Karamel is Kamil from the Desert Treasure I quest. Fight her up close with a spell that has a lower level requirement than your actual Magic level. You should not be using your highest level spell, as Karamel will likely lower your magic level to the point that you are no longer able to cast it. Bring stat restore potions and lots of food. Even with lowering your stats, Karamel is incredibly inaccurate. A good strategy is to use a Bolt Spell with Chaos gauntlets . As usual, Melee doesn't work on her very well. Unlike Kamil, Karamel uses ranged attacks at melee range. Since her ranged attacks are not very strong, a good tactic is to stand right next to her so she uses ranged, which reduces how frequently she uses her ice attacks. Manually casting spells is beneficial due to her freezing effects stopping your auto-attacks. She drops a choc-ice .

Note: Even though Kamil is immune to Iban Blast , Karamel is not. Iban Blast can be used very effectively.

Dessourt is Dessous from Desert Treasure I . Melee doesn't work very well on him, however he is less resistant to stab weapons . Magic such as Iban Blast works well. Ranged also works really well on him. Bring lots of food, and then, defeat him as quickly as possible. He drops chocolate dust .

Gelatinnoth Mother is the Dagannoth Mother from the Horror from the Deep quest, with that in mind you will need to bring Water, Air, Earth and Fire runes in order to attack her during her weakness. She uses a ranged attack that rolls two hits per attack, one magic based and one ranged based. Each hit is capable of hitting for 20 for a possible max hit of 40 per attack. Players who have 80 or less health can die easily with a bit of bad luck and slow eating. The fight itself is fairly easy, although a bit long. She changes colour depending on her weakness. She has a low Magic Defence but high Melee Defence, making it best to not bother with Melee and just focus on maging and ranging. A great strategy is to mage her while wearing a mix of the best dragonhide armour available, a shield such as a dragonfire shield , granite shield or toktz-ket-xil , and melee helmet such as Barrows . Otherwise, she will rip through Mystic robes and other magic robes with her ranged attacks. This would give the player a balanced Defence against both Ranged and Magic Defence without sacrificing too much Magic attack bonus.

Image | Colour | Weakness | Attack Using

 | White | Air spells | Wind Strike , Bolt , Blast , Wave , or Surge .

 | Blue | Water spells | Water Strike , Bolt , Blast , Wave , or Surge .

 | Orange | Melee | Melee attacks.

 | Brown | Earth spells | Earth Strike , Bolt , Blast , Wave , or Surge .

 | Red | Fire spells | Fire Strike , Bolt , Blast , Wave , or Surge .

 | Green | Ranged | Ranged attacks.

After you've defeated the Gelatinnoth Mother , the Culinaromancer himself will attack you. He's level 75, hits high (can hit rapid 25s with magic), but has practically no Defence . He uses Magic , but tries to get up close to attack as well. Kill him with any attack style and bring food. It is recommended to use armour that maximizes max hit (and to a lesser extent crush defence), as his magic attack has a flat 1-in-3 hit rate, so magic defence is irrelevant.

If you happen to defeat the Culinaromancer with a full inventory the reward lamp will drop at your feet when you return to the Lumbridge castle. A cake will drop to the ground, but you are unable to pick it up. It is mostly symbolic.

Fighting Agrith-Na-Na. Fighting Flambeed. Fighting Karamel. Fighting Dessourt. Fighting the Gelatinnoth mother. Fighting the Culinaromancer.

Congratulations! Quest (finally!) complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point An experience lamp , which grants 20,000 experience to any skill above 50 (can be banked for later use) Full access to the Culinaromancer's Chest , containing barrows gloves

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide