 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Freeing King Awowogei (#100.7)





Released | 15 March 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | James B (framework)



Freeing King Awowogei [ edit | edit source ]

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Inspect Awowogei .

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Long

Description | Awowogei needs his favourite food, but nobody seems to know what it is. Maybe you should go talk to him in his palace.

Requirements | 70 Cooking ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 48 Agility ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Monkey Madness I The Grand Tree Tree Gnome Village Recipe for Disaster/Another Cook's Quest Cook's Assistant The ability to defeat a level 84 Big Snake

Items required | M'speak amulet Karamjan monkey greegree (unless you already have another greegree) Gorilla , Ninja monkey and Zombie monkey greegree (can be obtained during the quest with a Monkey Talisman each) Banana (can be obtained during the quest) Monkey nuts or around 13 coins to buy some. Rope Knife or slashing weapon Pestle and mortar

Recommended | 65 Combat level Antipoison Stamina potions Food and Prayer potion (s) Ranged or Magic equipment (for killing a Monkey guard if you're obtaining a monkey talisman during the quest)

Enemies to defeat | Big Snake (level 84) - (recommended to kill several as they burn often when cooking) To obtain the greegrees: Zombie monkey (levels 82/129) Monkey guard (level 167) Monkey archer (level 86)

League notes | Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Inspect Awowogei at the table to start the quest , then travel to Ape Atoll .

Recommended items throughout the stay at Ape Atoll: M'speak amulet , Karamjan monkey greegree (or other greegrees), antipoison and food .

The easiest way to get to Ape Atoll is to use fairy ring code C L R , which leads to the middle of the agility course . If you have a ninja greegree (required), equip it and complete the agility course. Otherwise, attempt the rope swing as a human. You will fall and be put in jail. Then you can equip a different greegree, pick the lock and leave.

You can also get to Ape Atoll by going to the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of the Grand Tree and speaking to Daero .

Note: if you already obtained the ninja, zombie and gorilla greegrees during Monkey Madness I , you can skip this section.

In order to make the three required greegrees, you must bring a monkey talisman and the respective bones to Zooknock (located at the end of the Ape Atoll Dungeon ). Monkey talismans can be purchased from the rune salesman Tutab on ape atoll for 1,000 coins each, or obtained for free from the Monkey Child .

Once you land on Ape Atoll, head north with a greegree equipped (use the karamjan greegree if you do not have the others) and pass through the gate. Purchase three monkey talismans from the rune salesman. Next, kill a Monkey Guard and take its bones. Monkey Guards are located near the prayer altar on Ape Atoll. Make sure to use Ranged or Magic and safespot them,  Melee can be used but Monkey Guards will heal themselves when they reach low health so high damage is needed to combat this. A safespot location is in the north-east corner of the building behind the fire, or to the south behind the ladder.

Next you will need to kill a Monkey Archer . North of the bank icon on the mini-map are two ninja monkeys (monkey archers); either protect from range or safespot (by standing in the tall grass) to kill one. Make sure to grab the bones.

Zombie monkeys can be found in the Ape Atoll dungeon (entrance located on the south side of the island). This is the same cave that Zooknock can be found in. Be wary of traps and poisonous spiders.

Equip any greegree you have already so that the monsters in the dungeon to Zooknock do not attack you, negating the need for prayer potions.

Rubble will constantly fall on you throughout the cave dealing small amounts of damage. This damage is negated if standing under the stone outcroppings when the screen rumble occurs. It is a good idea to bring antipoison potions and food . Kill a zombie monkey in the cave and collect its bones.

Speak with Zooknock at the end of the cave with all three bones and talismans. Confirm that you want to make another (he calls it a talisman) greegree and then use the bones and talisman on Zooknock (he will pause after the conversation before giving you the greegree). Repeat this three times with the different bones to get all three greegrees.

Buy monkey nuts and grab a normal banana if you haven't already. Make sure you've equipped one of your greegrees and your m'speak amulet . Go to Awowogei 's palace on Ape Atoll by talking to the Elder Guard to let you in.

Note: You must have started the quest by inspecting Awowogei at the table before the Elder Guard will let you through.

Talk to Awowogei about his favourite food; he will refuse to divulge it, but will mention three monkeys in the temple. The three monkeys are located in the temple north of Awowogei, in the north-west corner of the ground floor. Tell them that you're planning a surprise party for the king. They will tell you to stuff the corpse of a big snake with banana slices and monkey nut paste. If you have a banana and the monkey nuts with you, speak to them again, twice, one for banana and one for monkey nuts. They will tell you that these are not good enough for the king's sophisticated palate, and that you will need to replace the ingredients with the sacred red banana and the tchiki monkey nuts . The normal banana and monkey nuts are no longer needed after this point. Be sure to speak with all 3 monkeys or the red banana tree will not spawn.

Note: If you speak with the three monkeys with a red banana in your inventory, they will eat it and you will need to get another.

Note: If your cooking level is at or just above the requirement (or you are boosting) the failure rate for cooking the stuffed snake is quite high. It is useful to obtain multiple tchiki monkey nuts , red bananas and snake corpses to avoid having to re-gather the ingredients. This can only be achieved by drop picking (dropping an item, retrieving it from its original source and picking up the original), otherwise the player will receive a message deterring it.

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Note : You cannot get the snake corpse beforehand. If you kill a snake before talking to Awowogei and then the three monkeys, you will get only bones.

Leave Ape Atoll and return to Crash Island . Go east until you find a large hole in the ground, and enter the cave below.

You will find five level 84 Big Snakes . Since they hit hard and are poisonous , Protect from Melee is advised. Turn it on before entering the cave. Kill one and take the snake corpse . You might want to grab multiple corpses since you might accidentally burn the snake. Try to stay away from the walls as more snakes (which are scenery) will appear and attack you.

Items needed: Rope , gorilla greegree , knife, pestle and mortar

Return to Ape Atoll and enter the city.

The red banana tree is located on the north-west coast of the island, just south-west of the gnome glider icon. To get the red banana , wield your gorilla greegree , as you'll need lots of strength. Then, go to the west coast and find the tree. Use your rope on it to get the banana. Do this at least twice, since the three monkeys will eat one of the sliced bananas that you bring back to them. If you forgot rope, Ifaba at the general store sells some. Slice the banana to get sliced red banana . You might want to get more sliced red bananas, since you might accidentally burn the snake.

If no bananas are on the tree, go to the three wise monkeys again with a normal banana and go through the dialogue regarding it until it is finished.

Players with access to fairy rings may use the code C L R to skip part of the Agility course.

Wield your ninja greegree , then go to the south part of town. The Agility course start-point is on the other side of a small river. You will need 48 Agility to access the course. Boosts will not work for this. Once over the bridge, head south-west near the cliff to enter the agility course. Continue on the course until right after the rope swing to reach the broken hut around a hole in the ground. Go down and pick some tchiki monkey nuts from the bush . Grind the tchiki nut into tchiki nut paste . You might want to create more tchiki nut paste , since you might accidentally burn the snake.

If there are no nuts on the bush, return to the three monkeys and use the standard monkey nuts on one of them and go through the dialogue regarding it until it is finished.

Pets cannot be brought onto the Agility course. If you have a pet following you, pick it up to use the course.

Note: Completing a lap of the course is a hard task in the Western Provinces achievement diary.

After you have everything, slice the banana and grind the nuts , then stuff your snake with them to create a raw stuffed snake . Be careful not to eat them yourself.

Go back to Ape Atoll , equip a greegree (you will need your Zombie greegree soon, but cannot run with it equipped), and then go back to the temple. Go down the trapdoor protected by gorillas , then down one of the ramps. There is a crack in the wall between the two bamboo ramps. Go through it, and you will see a patch of hot coals. This is where you need to equip your zombie greegree, as the hot coals will prevent you from going to the other side. Go to the long rock on the floor, boost your Cooking level if needed, and then, cook the snake on it. It is possible to over-cook the stuffed snake . You will know if you successfully cook or burn the snake, as there will be an animation when you try to cook it.

Travel back to Lumbridge Castle , and make sure your m'speak amulet is equipped. Right click the stuffed snake, and use it on Awowogei . If you eat the snake, you'll have to get another one.

Congratulations! Subquest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 10,000 Cooking experience 10,000 Agility experience Ape Atoll Teleport spell Further access to the Culinaromancer's Chest

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of the Freeing King Awowogei subquest is required for the following:

Monkey Madness II Hard Western Provinces Diary

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Mizaru ( 見ざる ), Kikazaru ( 聞かざる ), Iwazaru ( 言わざる ), can be translated from Japanese as "Don't see, Don't hear, Don't speak", where the word "-zaru" ( 猿 ) can also be translated to monkey ( 猿 ). The three can also be translated as "See no evil, Hear no evil, Speak no evil." The maxim, Three wise monkeys ( san'en , 三猿 ), is Japanese in origin.

v • t • e Freeing King Awowogei

 | Subquest of Recipe for Disaster

NPCs | Awowogei Mizaru Iwazaru Kikazaru Zooknock Monsters Big Snake |  | Awowogei Mizaru Iwazaru Kikazaru Zooknock | Monsters | Big Snake

 | Awowogei Mizaru Iwazaru Kikazaru Zooknock

Monsters | Big Snake

Items | Red banana Sliced red banana Tchiki monkey nuts Tchiki nut paste Snake corpse Raw stuffed snake Odd stuffed snake Stuffed snake Snake over-cooked

Locations | Ape Atoll Crash Island Dungeon

Music | Marooned

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide