 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Freeing Sir Amik Varze (#100.8)





Released | 15 March 2006 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | James B (framework)



Freeing Sir Amik Varze [ edit | edit source ]

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Inspect Sir Amik Varze .

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Medium

Description | Sir Amik Varze requires a crème brulee supreme. Talk to the Cook to learn how to make one in this complicated but fun subquest.

Requirements | 107 Quest points Access to the Kharazi Jungle Started Legends' Quest Completion of the following quests: Family Crest Heroes' Quest Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I Recipe for Disaster/Another Cook's Quest Cook's Assistant Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City Waterfall Quest The ability to defeat a level 227 Black dragon

Items required | Bucket of milk (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Pot of cream (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Pot of cornflour Sweetcorn (Can be picked from the sweetcorn fields south of Civitas illa Fortis in Varlamore without 20 Farming ( boostable ) ) Vanilla pod or tools to get one: Any axe (the Blessed axe will not work!) Any machete (as well as Radimus notes if you haven't completed Legends' Quest ) Dramen staff or Lunar staff to enter Zanaris if the Elite Lumbridge & Draynor diary has not been completed. Dramen branch to make cinnamon Pestle and mortar Ice gloves Raw chicken

Recommended | 70 Combat level Anti-dragon or dragonfire shield Antifire potion

Enemies to defeat | Evil Chicken (level varies) (see below) Black dragon (level 227)

Ironman concerns | The player visits Entrana Advised to collect your dramen branch beforehand as the brulee does not appear on death piles.

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Fremennik ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Inspect Sir Amik to start the quest . Legends' Quest must be started in order to free him. Ask the Cook how to make a brulee supreme . He will tell you to mix milk and cream , add a pot of cornflour , a vanilla pod from the Kharazi Jungle , the egg of the Evil Chicken and cinnamon , made by crushing a dramen branch . Then, you must flambé it using a dragon somehow.

Use the bucket of milk on the pot of cream to mix them. Add a pot of cornflour to the milky mixture . If you do not have cornflour, make it by grinding raw sweetcorn in a windmill and filling a pot with it. Add a vanilla pod to the cornflour mixture . Vanilla pods may be found in the south-west section of the Kharazi Jungle . Pick a vanilla pod from the vanilla plants near the coastline. Note: If you have not completed Legends' Quest , you must have the Radimus notes in order to enter Kharazi Jungle.

Note: If you do not talk to the Cook before this point in the sub-quest, you will not have the option to ask about the Evil Chicken through the Wise Old Man's Dialogue. Return to Lumbridge Castle and talk to him if you have not done so. Talk to the Wise Old Man of Draynor Village , in the building north of the bank. Choose the option about wanting to ask him something, and ask to talk about strange beasts, and then, ask about the Evil Chicken .

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Enter Zanaris and use the bank to set up for some combat : bring your Anti-dragon shield , and whatever you think you'll need to kill the Evil Chicken and a safespottable level 227 black dragon . In case you choose to bank between them, you will need another raw chicken . The Evil Chicken is level 159 if you are between 58-100 combat — level 170 if you're higher. Once you are ready for the fights, equip your anti-dragon shield, and use a raw chicken (green Raw chicken from Morytania will not work) on the Evil Chicken shrine north of the fairy ring that leads to the shack in Lumbridge (North-east of the fairy ring that you teleport into normally). With your anti-dragon shield (or Dragonfire shield ) equipped, kill one black dragon . If you are ranging or using a halberd , there is a safespot next to the entrance and just inside the corridor that leads to a mine. When it dies, the dragon will drop a dragon token . Note: If you die whilst killing the black dragon and the evil chicken's egg is in your inventory, the egg will respawn in the nest. Run past the black dragons into the northern cave (not the mining-area to the east), and kill the Evil Chicken. It fights the same as it used to during random event fights. The Evil Chicken hits frequently with Magic , but for very low damage - it shouldn't be too hard to kill. Take note that if you happen to die before you leave the lair after killing the Evil Chicken, all items dropped on death will disappear! Pick up the egg it drops. Back in a bank, add the egg to the brulee, and then, grind your dramen branch into cinnamon with your pestle and mortar and add that too. A game message should now tell you that "Now it just needs flambeing." Put your ice gloves on, and then, rub the token. K'klik will appear (you must be in Lumbridge or Zanaris for this to work). Wish for it to flambé your brulee to cook it. You can take up to 50 damage if you don't wear any ice gloves (it is possible to reload the game to stop the scene if you forgot, alternatively you can use the second dialogue option "Could I just keep your token" to exit the dialogue & return to the world). ( Antifire potion + Anti-dragon shield works as well.) If a cat or kitten is following you, a glitch may occur where it disappears. Your pet is still following you - simply log out and log back in to fix this or " Call follower " on "Worn Equipment" tab. Travel back to Lumbridge Castle and then give the brulee to Sir Amik Varze to protect him.

 | The Fairy Dragon

The music which plays when meeting K'klik.



Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 4,000 Cooking experience 4,000 Hitpoints experience Access to the Evil Chicken's Lair , where you can fight black dragons (The fowl beast himself has moved on to other things.) Further access to the Culinaromancer's Chest .

Unlocks:

Evil Chicken accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article has an associated transcript page. Click here for the transcript.

v • t • e Freeing Sir Amik Varze

 | Subquest of Recipe for Disaster

NPCs | Sir Amik Varze Wise Old Man K'klik Monsters Evil Chicken Black dragon |  | Sir Amik Varze Wise Old Man K'klik | Monsters | Evil Chicken Black dragon

 | Sir Amik Varze Wise Old Man K'klik

Monsters | Evil Chicken Black dragon

Items | Book on chickens Pot of cornflour Vanilla pod Cinnamon Evil chicken's egg Cornflour mixture Milky mixture Dragon token Brulee (vanilla) Brulee (egg) Brulee (raw) Brulee supreme Cornflour

Locations | Kharazi Jungle Zanaris Evil Chicken's Lair

Scenery | Vanilla plant

Music | Chickened Out

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide