 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Recipe for Disaster (#100)





Released | 15 March 2006 ( Update )

Also called | RFD

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | James B (framework)



Recipe for Disaster is the 100th quest released by Jagex , being a sequel to the Cook's Assistant quest. It is composed of 10 parts : the introduction, followed by 8 subquests, then culminating in a grand finale where the player must face-off with the Culinaromancer . The subquests range in difficulty from very easy to very hard. It is intended to be a quest which nearly any member can start, but which only the most accomplished and willing players can complete. It is most known for rewarding the player with the ability to buy Barrows gloves .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to the Cook in the kitchen of Lumbridge Castle . Show on map

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Very Long

Description | The cook in Lumbridge has a surprisingly small number of ingredients on hand in his kitchen, possibly as a result of an endless stream of newcomers with light fingers, taking anything that isn't nailed down from his kitchen. Luckily, in the past, a kind Cook's Assistant was willing to help him in his culinary duties, but a problem has now appeared that could spell... a Recipe For Disaster ! Almost all members may attempt to solve his tricky predicament, and be rewarded accordingly, but only the very elite of Questers will be able to put an end to his problem permanently!

Requirements | To start the quest and finish the first chapter : 10 Cooking ( boostable ) Completion of Cook's Assistant To complete all chapters of the quest: All prerequisite quest requirements 175 Quest points (9 are earned for the other parts of the quest, and 79 are gained by completing all required quests) 70 Cooking ( boostable ) 48 Agility ( not boostable ) 50 Mining ( boostable ) 53 Fishing ( boostable ) 53 Thieving ( not boostable ) 25 Herblore ( boostable ) 59 Magic ( boostable ) 40 Smithing ( boostable ) 50 Firemaking ( boostable ) 40 Ranged ( not boostable ) 40 Crafting ( boostable ) 10 Fletching ( boostable ) 36 Woodcutting ( boostable ) The ability to defeat high leveled monsters, several of which have to be defeated without using Prayer Completion (or partial completion where stated) of the following quests: Fishing Contest Goblin Diplomacy Big Chompy Bird Hunting Murder Mystery Nature Spirit Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost Witch's House Gertrude's Cat Shadow of the Storm Demon Slayer The Golem Started Legends' Quest up until gaining access to the Kharazi Jungle Family Crest Heroes' Quest Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City Monkey Madness I The Grand Tree Tree Gnome Village Desert Treasure I The Dig Site The Tourist Trap Temple of Ikov Waterfall Quest Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Horror from the Deep Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl

Items required | To start the quest and finish the first chapter : Eye of newt Greenman's ale Rotten tomato Any fruit blast excluding a premade fr' blast Ashes To complete all chapters of the quest: About 320 coins (or 120 if you have the activated Ring of charos ) Bowl of water (an empty bowl can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Bucket of water (an empty bucket can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) 3 buckets of milk (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) 2 eggs (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Orange Banana (obtainable during the quest) Any dye except red, yellow, or orange Spice or gnome spice (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Gloves ( ice gloves are preferred) Charcoal Fishing bait Fishbowl 2 bread Pestle and mortar Needle 3 bronze wires Cake tin (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) 4 Asgarnian ale (6 recommended) Any cat except an overgrown cat (you'll be chasing rats , so a wily cat is recommended) Several bowls of stew (9 at most) Raw chompy (several recommended in case of burning) Raw chicken Raw cod Iron spit Regular logs Tinderbox Ball of wool Ogre bellows (obtainable during the quest) Ogre bow and several ogre arrows (10 is enough) 2 pots of flour (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Pot of cornflour (or raw sweetcorn and an empty pot ) Pot of cream (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Any axe Any pickaxe Any machete Knife Dramen staff and branch M'speak amulet Gorilla , ninja and zombie greegree (or 3000 coins and combat equipment if making the greegrees during the quest) Monkey nuts (or 3 coins ) Rope

Enemies to defeat | Icefiend (level 13) (only if you lack ice gloves ) 5 Mudskippers (level 30/31) Crab (level 21/23) Evil Chicken (level varies) (see below) Black dragon (level 227) Big Snake (level 84) Zombie monkey (levels 82/129) Monkey guard (level 167) Ninja monkey (level 86) Agrith-Na-Na (Level 146) Flambeed (level 149) Karamel (level 136) Dessourt (level 121) Gelatinnoth Mother (level 130) Culinaromancer (level 75)

League notes | Partially completable — Requires Varlamore ✓ or Fremennik ✓ for Greenman's ale to complete Another Cook's Quest . (A Fruit blast can be obtained in Misthalin ✓ by talking to an Examiner for Level 3 certificate , handing it over to Curator Haig Halen and asking for a drink.) Alternately, unlocking Kandarin ✓ or Morytania ✓ will auto-complete Another Cook's Quest .

Another Cook's Quest [ edit | edit source ]

The cook is preparing for a party in Lumbridge . He tells the player that a hundred years ago, a very important meeting was held in Lumbridge. Supposedly his ancestor, Franizzard Van Lumbcook , cooked such an amazing banquet for the occasion that he was offered a job as head cook, along with all his descendants, for life.

This big, important meeting is held in Lumbridge every ten years and today is the 10th meeting. As he cannot think of a brilliant dish himself, he intends to use his ancestor's recipe for the feast. However, he needs help gathering the ingredients, again. Gather the ingredients and complete the subquest to receive an invitation to The Feast. All but the rotten tomato can be obtained from the Grand Exchange. You can buy one from Pelters' Veg Stall behind the Varrock General Store , or head to the bank chest at the Emir's Arena in Al Kharid to obtain one from the barrel.

Items required: eye of newt , glass of greenman's ale , rotten tomato and dirty blast ( fruit blast + ashes ) .

The Feast [ edit | edit source ]

 | The Secret Council

The music that plays during the long cutscene.



Enter the doors to the dining room to begin the feast. The members of the Lumbridge council are gathered at the table:

a Mountain Dwarf from White Wolf Mountain Osman or Selim from Al Kharid the goblin generals from Goblin Village Pirate Pete from Braindeath Island the Lumbridge Guide Evil Dave from Edgeville Skrach Uglogwee from the Feldip Hills Sir Amik Varze from Falador Awowogei from Ape Atoll Duke Horacio himself Aris from Varrock , who is arriving late.

Right before you enter, the Duke will get the strange box event and will leave the room to fiddle with it, and Osman will get taken away by Evil Bob . At this point, you will enter the room. A short while later, the Culinaromancer crashes the party and starts to attack everyone at the dining table with magic spells. Luckily, Aris will show up and freeze everyone in time (except the player and herself).

The Culinaromancer arrives. Aris arrives too late. Aris casts "Tempus Cessit" to freeze the room in time.

Freeing council members [ edit | edit source ]

Aris explains that the Culinaromancer was a cook in Lumbridge a hundred years ago and had threatened the secret council with death, only to be thwarted by the Duke's assistant, who managed to trap him in another dimension. This assistant was the cook's ancestor, and was made head cook for life.

The current head cook, whom you helped build the feast, apparently created a powerful food-magic, which released the Culinaromancer from his prison. Seeing him, Aris casts the aforementioned spell, so that you both can protect the council from the Culinaromancer's attacks. While she can easily seal the Culinaromancer in a heartbeat, due to the fact you caused the Culinaromancer to awaken she holds you responsible and sends you to save them as the magic is causing a temporal paradox that could destroy the known reality with the magic.

After the feast, you will be able to enter and exit the dining hall at will. However, the room will be in a dormant state. To release each member of the council from the Culinaromancer's spell, you must feed each of them their favourite food. Aris and Cook will both be there to help you. You can complete these subquests in any order, and start as many of them at a time as you want.

After you give each member their favourite dish, Aris teleports them away to safety and tells you how many more council members are left. Each subquest gives 1 quest point and some access to the Culinaromancer's Chest , as well as additional rewards such as items or lamps of experience.

Name | Requirements

Freeing the Mountain Dwarf | Able to kill a level 13 Icefiend (optional) Completion of Fishing Contest

Freeing the Goblin generals | Completion of Goblin Diplomacy

Freeing Pirate Pete | Level 31 Cooking Able to defeat five level 35 monsters

Freeing the Lumbridge Guide | Level 40 Cooking Completion of the following quests: Big Chompy Bird Hunting Biohazard Plague City Demon Slayer Murder Mystery Nature Spirit Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost Witch's House

Freeing Evil Dave | 25 Cooking Completion of the following quests: Gertrude's Cat Shadow of the Storm Demon Slayer The Golem

Freeing Skrach Uglogwee | 41 Cooking and 20 Firemaking Completion of Big Chompy Bird Hunting

Freeing Sir Amik Varze | 107 Quest points Access to the Kharazi Jungle (started Legends' Quest ) Completion of the following quests: Family Crest Heroes' Quest Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I Shilo Village Jungle Potion Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City Waterfall Quest The ability to defeat a level 227 Black dragon

Freeing King Awowogei | 70 Cooking 48 Agility Able to defeat a level 84 Big Snake Completion of the following quests: Monkey Madness I The Grand Tree Tree Gnome Village

Defeating the Culinaromancer [ edit | edit source ]

After saving the final member of the Secret Council, the Culinaromancer will retreat through a portal back into his own dimension. Aris tells you to go through the portal to finish him off before he causes more trouble.

The safest way for an ultimate ironman to defeat the Culinaromancer is to suicide beforehand at the nettles in Edgeville and then only take the food and weapons that you require. After each fight you should repeat and restock on food at the Warriors' Guild and Alfonse the waiter in Brimhaven.

You can leave and stock up after defeating a boss without losing your progress. However, Prayer can never be used during any of the fights.

Name | Requirements

Defeating the Culinaromancer | 175 Quest points Able to defeat enemies up to level 149 without Prayer Completion of the following quests: Desert Treasure I The Dig Site Temple of Ikov The Tourist Trap Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Priest in Peril Waterfall Quest Horror from the Deep Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

In total, completing all 10 subquests for "Recipe for Disaster" awards:

10 Quest points An experience lamp , which grants 20,000 experience to any skill above 50 (can be banked for later use) Access to the following areas: Mogre Camp Evil Chicken's Lair Ability to dive for crabs Ability to cook crab meat Ability to catch hell-rats Ability to own a hellcat Ability to add coloured spices to stews of any sort Ability to use the boat trip to travel between Karamja and Feldip Hills Ape Atoll Teleport spell Full access to Culinaromancer's Chest Access to Kitchen weaponry Access to the banking chest (under Lumbridge Castle) Access to a food store in the Culinaromancer's Chest Access to buy Barrows gloves

Unlocks:

Evil Chicken accessible in the Nightmare Zone on completion of Recipe for Disaster - Freeing Sir Amik Varze subquest. Agrith-Na-Na , Flambeed , Karamel , Dessourt , Gelatinnoth Mother , Culinaromancer accessible in the Nightmare Zone after quest completion.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

16 May 2013 ( update ) | Combat damage will no longer follow you out of the Culinaromancer's battleground.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Originally, subquests were planned for Duke Horacio and Osman ; but due to the ambitious nature of Recipe for Disaster and the need to release it as the 100th quest on time, they were cut. As a result, Duke Horacio and Osman were teleported away by random events. Osman's subquest was later repurposed into the Sorceress's Garden minigame. [1] When the player is informed of the universe, they exclaim " Not the universe! That's where I keep all my stuff. " This is a reference to the animated series The Tick . The three monkeys during Awowogei 's part is a reference to the three wise monkeys (三匹の猿 sanbikinosaru ), who see no evil, hear no evil, and speak no evil. Culinaromancer shouts "I'LL BE BACK!" after the player has set free all the guests. This is a reference to Arnold Schwarzenegger's famous catch phrase in the Terminator series. When asking the Cook how you defeated the Culinaromancer, after his explanation, he will tell you "Did you ever know that you're my hero?" which is a lyric from the song Wind Beneath My Wings .

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide