 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Recruitment Drive (#83)





Released | 27 June 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Temple Knight , #1

Lead developer(s) | James B



Recruitment Drive is the first quest in the Temple Knight series . It marks the first appearance of Sir Tiffy Cashien , who recruits you for the Temple Knights . However, the recruitment process involves several puzzles to test your wits.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Sir Amik Varze on the 2 nd floor [ UK ] 3 rd floor [ US ] of the White Knights' Castle 's western tower in Falador . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Short

Description | The Temple Knights of Saradomin, a secret organisation founded many centuries ago by Saradomin himself, are currently looking to expand their ranks with some new blood. After the successful thwarting of the Black Knights' plans to take over Asgarnia, and with the personal recommendation of Sir Amik, you have now been offered the chance to apply for membership in this organisation... but are you up to the challenge?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Black Knights' Fortress Druidic Ritual

Items required | None

Recommended | 10 Combat level 5 Strength

Enemies to defeat | Sir Leye (level 20)

Ironman concerns | You will lose your Hardcore ironman status if you die to Sir Leye. This quest requires an empty inventory and no items worn.

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

To start the quest, speak to Sir Amik Varze who is located on the 2 nd floor [ UK ] 3 rd floor [ US ] of the western part of the White Knights' Castle . He will tell you to talk to Sir Tiffy Cashien in Falador Park to be tested. In order to be able to be tested, you need to have an empty inventory and no items equipped.

Now, head to Falador Park, and talk to Sir Tiffy Cashien. He will tell you that you must go through a mental test. Sir Tiffy Cashien is sitting on a bench at the entrance for Falador Park.

Testing [ edit | edit source ]

Sir Tiffy Cashien will take you to the testing grounds. There are seven different testing rooms. In each room, there is a yellow portal at the beginning of the room (takes you back to Falador ) and a yellow portal at the end of the room, which you may use to travel to the next room after you pass the test. You need to complete five in a row. Which five you'll get, as well as the order that they are in, is completely random. However, you will always be required to defeat Sir Leye in one of the five tests. If you fail a test, you have no choice but to return to Falador and start over.

Sir Kuam Ferentse [ edit | edit source ]

He tells the player that they must defeat Sir Leye , who is level 20. Sir Leye has been blessed by Saradomin so that no blade may harm him. There are four weapons nearby: a steel sword , steel claws , a steel battleaxe , and a steel warhammer . Any of the weapons can be used to damage Sir Leye, but the player must choose the warhammer (as it is the only non-bladed weapon) or may opt to fight unarmed for the final blow to kill him. If the player is wielding a bladed weapon when he dies, they will fail the test. Note: Skillers can trap Leye in the corners of the room and flinch him by waiting for his HP bar to go away and then hitting and running. Skillers may find this part impractical because Sir Leye is very difficult to get into the corner positions and he will take damage very slowly, to the point where he may heal faster than the damage being done. One of the corners where flinching is possible is on the south-west corner. Sir Leye should be on the south tile with the player on the west tile. Wait until his HP bar disappears, then attack and move back to the west tile. Setting this up is tricky and requires patience.

Sir Spishyus [ edit | edit source ]

Right next to him , you'll see a 5 kg chicken, a 5 kg bag of grain, and a 5 kg fox. You must get all three of them across a bridge that only supports five kilograms at a time. The tricky part is that if you leave the fox and chicken alone, the fox will eat the chicken. The chicken will also eat the bag of grain if the two of them are left alone.

Option 1

Option 2

Once you complete the puzzle, the door now unlocks and you can proceed to the next puzzle via the portal.

Lady Table [ edit | edit source ]

Important: Take a screenshot of the statues as you enter the room (or remember the statues if you have a good memory). You only have a few seconds after you enter the room! If you talk to Lady Table before the room changes, the room won't change until you exit the chat dialogue, so you can use this time to study the room layout.

Lady Table will test your memory. She will have 11 statues of a knight in front of her. There are supposed to be 12, but one has been taken away. You will have a few seconds to look at the statues, then the missing one will be returned. You must then touch the one that was missing.

The trick to passing this one is to analyse the types of statues. There should be four statues of each colour: bronze, silver, and gold. First, see which colour only has three statues . After you figure out the colour, figure out the weapon. There are four weapons: sword , halberd , greataxe, and mace . Figure out which weapon is missing. After you have figured it out, touch the statue.

Miss Cheevers [ edit | edit source ]

There are many bookcases and crates with items. Search everything (including the chest) and take everything. Some of the items you find are not needed for the solution, such as the alchemical notes that only contain hints. There are two doors that you must get through. The first door is missing a handle, while the second one is locked.

Sir Ren Itchood [ edit | edit source ]

When you talk to Sir Ren Itchood , he will speak in riddles, the answer to which is a four letter word, made up of the first letter of each line of his riddle. Use the answer to unlock the combination lock on the next door. The possible solutions are: BITE , FISH , LAST , MEAT , RAIN or TIME .

Ms. Hynn Terprett [ edit | edit source ]

She will give you a multiple choice riddle. There are many to choose from - they are as follows:

Riddle: Imagine that you have been captured by an enemy. You are to be killed, but in a moment of mercy, the enemy has allowed you to pick your own demise - being drowned in a lake of acid, burned on a fire, thrown to a pack of wolves that have not been fed in over a month or thrown from the walls of a castle, many hundreds of feet high. Answer: Being fed to the wolves - wolves cannot survive for 30 days without food, thus they would all be dead. Riddle: I have both a husband and daughter. My husband is four times older than my daughter. In twenty years time, he will be twice as old as my daughter. How old is my daughter now? Answer: Her daughter is 10 years old. Writing out the given information in the form of the equation 4 x + 2 0 = 2 ( x + 1 0 ) , we can find easily the daughter's age 𝑥. Balancing the equation gives us ( 4 x + 2 0 = 2 ( x + 2 0 ) 2 ) = ( ( 2 x + 1 0 ) − 1 0 = ( x + 2 0 ) − 1 0 ) = ( 2 x = x + 1 0 ) , from which we can finally subtract an 𝑥 from each side to get x = 1 0 . Riddle: I dropped four identical stones, into four identical buckets, each containing an identical amount of water. The first bucket was at 32 degrees Fahrenheit, the second was at 33 degrees, the third was at 34 and the fourth was at 35 degrees. Which bucket's stone dropped to the bottom of the bucket last? Answer: The first bucket (Bucket A). At 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 degrees Celcius) the bucket of water is frozen, so the stone never reaches the bottom. Riddle: Counting the creatures and humans in RuneScape, you get about a million inhabitants. If you multiply the fingers on everything's left hand by zero, how many would you get? Answer: Zero. You are multiplying by zero, which yields zero. Riddle: Which of the following is true? The number of false statements here is one. The number of false statements here is two. The number of false statements here is three. The number of false statements here is four. How many false statements are there? Answer: Logic dictates that the number of false statements must be three. There are four possible answers, so for one of them to be true, all others must be false.

Sir Tinley [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Sir Tinley ,  click on "continue". Stand still for eight seconds, do not click on anything after clicking continue, or the player will fail this task.

After completing all five tests subsequently, you will automatically be teleported back into Falador Park where Sir Tiffy Cashien will congratulate you on a job well done.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,000.5 Prayer experience 1,000.5 Herblore experience 1,000.5 Agility experience 3,000 coins Access to initiate armour . You will be given a sallet for free, and you can buy subsequent sallets from Sir Tiffy Cashien for 6,000 coins , the cuisse for 8,000 coins, the hauberk for 10,000 coins, or the full set for 20,000 coins. It is aesthetically similar to white armour , with a gold trim. The Gaze of Saradomin - When you die, you will have the option of returning to Falador instead of Lumbridge . Talk to Sir Tiffy Cashien to change your spawn point at any time. Appointment with the title of Initiate in the Order of Temple Knights . [ note ]

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Recruitment Drive is required for the following:

Wanted! Medium Falador Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

9 November 2022 ( update ) | Sir Leye must now be defeated by one of four weapons instead of only by female player characters.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Recruitment Drive is one of five quests not to play the standard quest completion music. While Mountain Daughter plays Asleif's singing, Sins of the Father plays a melancholy tune, and Monkey Madness II plays monkey chattering, Regicide and Recruitment Drive play nothing. When asking Sir Tiffy Cashien about "Testing...?" near the beginning of the quest, the player mentions fetching common items and delivering them across the country, a reference to the quest One Small Favour . Prior to an update on 9 November 2022 , Sir Leye could only be defeated by female characters, as it was said he had been blessed by Saradomin so that no "man" could defeat him. His former invincibility against any man may have been a reference to the prophecy of Glorfindel, featured in J. R. R. Tolkien's novel The Lord of the Rings , for the Witch-king of Angmar fell not by "the hand of man". The prophecy was fulfilled as he is killed by Éowyn, princess of Rohan. All of the knights' names are puns: Sir Tiffy Cashien - Certification Sir Kuam Ferentse - Circumference Sir Leye - Surly Sir Spishyus - Suspicious Miss Hinn Terprett - Misinterpret Sir Tinley - Certainly Sir Ren Itchood - Serenitude Lady Table - Lay the Table Miss Cheevers - Mischievous Sir Vey - Survey Sir Amik Varze - Ceramic Vase Sir Vyvin - Surviving Sir Renitee - Serenity King Vallance was presumably once Sir Vallance - Surveillance Sir Rebral - Cerebral

v • t • e Recruitment Drive

NPCs | Sir Amik Varze Sir Tiffy Cashien Lady Table Sir Kuam Ferentse Sir Spishyus Miss Cheevers Sir Ren Itchood Ms. Hynn Terprett Sir Tinley Enemies Sir Leye |  | Sir Amik Varze Sir Tiffy Cashien Lady Table Sir Kuam Ferentse Sir Spishyus Miss Cheevers Sir Ren Itchood Ms. Hynn Terprett Sir Tinley | Enemies | Sir Leye

 | Sir Amik Varze Sir Tiffy Cashien Lady Table Sir Kuam Ferentse Sir Spishyus Miss Cheevers Sir Ren Itchood Ms. Hynn Terprett Sir Tinley

Enemies | Sir Leye

Items | Grain Fox Chicken Cupric sulfate Acetic acid Gypsum Sodium chloride Nitrous oxide Vial of liquid Tin ore powder Cupric ore powder Metal spade Metal spade (head) Alchemical notes Bronze key Chisel Bronze wire Shears Magnet Knife ??? mixture Hourglass Tin Empty Gypsum Hardening Impression Tin Copper Tin and copper Key Strange Initiate armour Sallet Hauberk Cuisse Discontinued Makeover voucher |  | Grain Fox Chicken Cupric sulfate Acetic acid Gypsum Sodium chloride Nitrous oxide Vial of liquid Tin ore powder Cupric ore powder Metal spade Metal spade (head) Alchemical notes Bronze key Chisel Bronze wire Shears Magnet Knife ??? mixture Hourglass | Tin | Empty Gypsum Hardening Impression Tin Copper Tin and copper Key Strange | Initiate armour | Sallet Hauberk Cuisse | Discontinued | Makeover voucher

 | Grain Fox Chicken Cupric sulfate Acetic acid Gypsum Sodium chloride Nitrous oxide Vial of liquid Tin ore powder Cupric ore powder Metal spade Metal spade (head) Alchemical notes Bronze key Chisel Bronze wire Shears Magnet Knife ??? mixture Hourglass

Tin | Empty Gypsum Hardening Impression Tin Copper Tin and copper Key Strange

Initiate armour | Sallet Hauberk Cuisse

Discontinued | Makeover voucher

Scenery | Bunsen burner Chair Chest Crate Door Key Old Bookshelf Portal Precarious bridge Shelves Statue Stone Door Table Warning Sign

Music | The Chosen

Related | Quick guide Transcript Temple Knights Sir Vey Lance