 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Regicide (#59)





Released | 20 September 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Elf , #4

Lead developer(s) | Dylan C



Regicide is the fourth quest in the Elf quest series , where King Lathas sends the player to Tirannwn to kill his brother, King Tyras , and end his tyranny.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to King Lathas on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of Ardougne Castle . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Long

Description | Continuing the Plague City series, the Regicide Quest takes you beyond the 'Well of Voyage' to a new realm. King Lathas will employ you once again, this time for the grim task of disposing of his brother. Upon travelling to the realm you will find yourself surrounded by new and strange plants, animals and even a new race. Once there, you will see that everything is not as serene as it first appears.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City 10 Crafting ( not boostable ) 56 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) The ability to defeat a level 110 Tyras guard (can be safespotted )

Items required | 5 coal in the bank (although at least 25 is recommended; you may bring the coal noted to save you a bank trip) Bow and some arrows (or lit fire arrows if you already have some.) 2 ropes (3 in case you fail) Spade Limestone (or a pickaxe and 10+ Mining ). Note that limestone bricks will not work. Tinderbox Strip of cloth (made on a loom with 4 balls of wool ; not a bolt of cloth - you can use the loom at the Iorwerth Camp or at the Falador farm) Pestle and mortar Gloves , the list on Quicklime shows all gloves that work. Pot (obtainable during quest) Cooked rabbit (obtainable during quest) or roast rabbit

Recommended | 60 Combat level Some antidote++ or antipoisons Stamina potions and weight-reducing gear (such as Boots of Lightness or the Graceful outfit ) At least 3 Summer pies to boost Agility for several obstacles, and to recover health from the traps Ranged , Magic or a Halberd to safespot the Tyras Guard Coins to buy food in the Underground Pass Any axe to cook the raw rabbit anywhere Fast travel to Rimmington such as Rimmington teleport tablets, Teleport to House if your house is in Rimmington, Ring of the elements , Falador teleport , or Explorer's Ring 2 or higher. Fast travel to the Underground Pass ( West Ardougne teleport or travel from East Ardougne) OPTIONAL: Your Iban's staff or its upgraded counterpart in order to recharge it for free by using it on the well during the Underground Pass section

Enemies to defeat | Tyras guard (level 110) Safespottable

League notes | Unlocking Tirannwn ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

You may be approached by the King's Messenger , but this is not required. Talk to King Lathas . He will tell you to go through the Underground Pass again to the western darklands. Once there, you are to meet some scouts of his. You must speak to King Lathas and be informed of your new mission before going through the Underground Pass; otherwise, you won't be able to enter Iban's Temple. The quest log will indicate the quest is started by showing a description of what must be done rather than the requirements.

First trip [ edit | edit source ]

See the separate guide for how to get through the pass. If you have just enough agility potions to complete the required elf traps, do not waste them here as it takes another voyage through the pass to get back to the elf lands.

Once you are at Iban 's temple (where you encounter him during Underground Pass), go in and talk to Koftik if you require food. Simply climb down the Well of Voyage and go out of the cave.

Isafdar [ edit | edit source ]

Welcome to Tirannwn! Go into the forest just a little bit and wait for an elf named Idris to spawn and start a dialogue with you. This may take a little while. If he spawns but does not talk to you, hop worlds and try again . He will question why you are here, but he is slain by Essyllt and Morvran before he has the chance to finish. They will tell you to talk to Lord Iorwerth , who can be found at the camp in the north-west corner of the forest.

Before proceeding with the quest, here is a detailed map of Tirannwn :

As you navigate the forest, you will encounter four different obstacles:

Dense forest : You will learn how to navigate this obstacle after speaking to an Elf Tracker later in the quest. 56 Agility is required to push through the dense forest, though this is not required to return back to the starting point of this obstacle (e.g., returning from Tyras Camp to the forest). This obstacle cannot be failed. Note: Players under level 56 agility can use the fact that most dense forests only have an agility requirement one way through the forest. It is advised to attempt passing through the forest before taking a bite or sip from your boosting item.

Leaf trap : This obstacle is a pitfall that appears as a circle of leaves on the ground. Click "Jump Over" on the side of the trap that is closest to where you are standing. If you ignore or fail the trap, you will fall through the leaves and lose 15 HP .

Tripwire : You will see two rocks connected by a thin wire with four small crossbows pointing at them. Right click between the rocks to step over the tripwire. If you ignore or fail the trap, you will lose 10 HP and be poisoned , starting at 2 HP.

Stick trap : This obstacle appears as some sticks on the ground. Click "Pass" on the obstacle. If you ignore or fail the trap, you will lose 8 HP . If you stand in front of the trap by exactly one square, and repeatedly 'spam'-click the trap until your character moves over, you will negate any damage and never fail this trap, no matter your agility level. If you stop clicking for just one tick, your character will attempt to walk, and may fail and take damage! So make sure to keep clicking until your characters moves automatically.

Getting through the forest [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to the Iorwerth Camp in the north-west corner. See the map above for reference. Along the way you can kill and cook rabbits for food if needed.

From the Underground Pass exit, go west and take the south split in the path to avoid the stick trap. Keep going west until you see a leaf trap (pitfall) to the south. Jump over it. Keep going south until you reach two small pools of water. Go west and cross the stick trap. Go up the north-west path and jump over the leaf trap. Keep going north and cross the log balance (Level 45 Agility is required) to reach the camp.

At the camp, speak with Lord Iorwerth . He will tell you to talk to his tracker after you tell him that King Lathas sent you.

Go back down the path you took to reach the camp, but go south when you reach the stick trap.

The Elf Tracker is at a small camp just north of the Poison Waste . He will not believe what you say since you are a human, so return to Lord Iorwerth to get a crystal pendant . Note that if you wish to keep the pendant as a souvenir, it must be drop tricked every time you talk to Lord Iorwerth from now on, as well as when completing the quest by talking to King Lathas - otherwise it will be removed from your inventory or bank. Talk to the tracker again with the pendant in your possession. He will tell you to find the Tyras Camp .

Click "Follow" on the footprints leading into the dense forest to the west. You will receive a message telling you that you are unable to follow the footprints. Return to the tracker and tell him. You will now be able to climb through dense forest if you have 56 Agility .

Climb through the dense forest just west of the tracker and a level 110 Tyras guard will attack you, equipped with a steel halberd . Despite having a halberd, he does not have a 2-square attack range. You can use the mushrooms as a safespot or use Protect from Melee to make the fight easier ( Prayer flicking is an option as he has a slow attack speed). If you take too long in killing him, he will despawn, and you will have to try to summon him again, or kill the guard by the entrance to the Tyras camp instead. This alternative guard does not despawn, but he does in fact have a 2-square attack range, and his safe spot is more difficult. Lure him to the clump of rocks directly north-east of the dense forest, trap him in the small hollow, and walk east out of his range. He will try to back away from you when you attack from outside his range, but will be caught in the rocks on his west and south. After you have killed one of these guards, proceed to the Tyras Camp, stepping over the tripwire to the north-west if you killed the first guard. Climb through the dense forest to the north and then go west. You will find Tyras Camp past the dense forest that is south of the catapult . If you killed the second guard, he may respawn if you do not enter the dense forest quickly enough but he will not attack you after you have killed him.

Talk to General Hining . He will tell you that you can't see King Tyras. You can buy bread from the general store if you are low on food, but leave one space available for the Big Book O' Bangs, which will be given by Lord Iorwerth upon returning to him. Go back to the Elf Tracker, then talk to Lord Iorwerth (remember to drop the crystal pendant if you are keeping it).

Getting the materials [ edit | edit source ]

Lord Iorwerth will give you the Big Book O' Bangs . Don't drop this book - you need it when in Rimmington later.

Talk to Lord Iorwerth and ask him about all the items.

In order to build the explosive, you will need a barrel of coal tar , sulphur , and limestone . Here is how to gather the materials:

Take at least three barrels from the Iorwerth camp because you can lose your coal tar when attempting to make the barrel of naphtha . Another barrel of naphtha will be required for the Mourning's End Part I quest, so extra barrels now will save time later. Two barrel spawns can be found in the north-east tent. Go back to the Elf Tracker . Go to the poison waste swamp south of the tracker and fill all your barrels with coal tar. See the image for where to obtain it. The target tile looks no different from the neighbouring grey swamp tiles, but has a "Take Coal Tar" option when hovered over. Gather some of the sulphur from beside the poison waste swamp. You will only need one unless you lose the bomb. If you wish to mine limestone in the forest, go east of the Iorwerth camp and through the dense forest, and north-east past the gates of Prifddinas . Find some limestone rocks and mine one piece of limestone. However, if low on inventory space, it may be more convenient to buy, or mine the limestone later at the Limestone Mine by the Odd Old Man .

Make sure you have the big book of bangs , at least one barrel of coal tar , and some sulphur . After this, it is safe to teleport out of Isafdar.

Making the barrel of naphtha [ edit | edit source ]

Go to East Ardougne and speak with Elena , who will tell you to see the Chemist in Rimmington . Talk to the Chemist about the quest, and he will give you permission to use the distiller. Now, use a barrel of coal tar on the large distiller outside.

The barrel is only used to access the machine; as long as you leave the window open and have enough coal you can still do the distilling. All you need to do here is to get the green bar filled. You can configure the machine before using any coal.

The valves can be clicked on their left side or their right side to control what side they go to.

The idea of using this distiller is to keep pressure stable on its green area (this is the first segment that the needle reaches, the following one being red) and keep the heat on the green area (tips below) as long as possible while adding coal, but there is tolerance for mistakes.

The pressure valve has 3 positions: Closed, controlled, and released (the last one resets pressure to 0, remember you need some pressure to make the naphtha), it is initially closed (handle on the left side).

The tar regulator has 3 positions as well: Closed, intake, and afterburner, it is also initially closed and once you put it to intake (handle at the top) pressure will start going up.

Let the pressure go up to the green area, but pay attention to the heat level. Add coal as needed, optimally to maintain the heat gauge in the green zone, but it could be played more safely by keeping it well below overheating.

A very easy way to do this is:

Start by using the barrel of coal tar on the Fractionalising still. Turn the valve on the right all the way to the third tick (all the way to the right). Wait for the pressure gauge to land in the green zone. Quickly turn the valve on the left to the second tick (in the middle) to halt the pressure in the green zone. If it landed in the red zone, you could turn the valve right to relieve some pressure, then back to the middle. The valves never need to be touched again, and the pressure gauge can be ignored. Add 2 coal, and then 1 additional coal whenever the heat gauge falls too low (below, or counterclockwise from, the green zone). Don't spam click the "add coal" button. If you add too much at once, it is likely to overheat and you will have to restart, but this does not make you lose your barrel of coal tar. Simply add more coal to start the process again. Optimally, the process is fast and may use only 4-5 coal.

The bar on the bottom should start turning green. When it is full, stop adding coal and close the window to replace your empty barrel with a barrel of naphtha . To prevent confusion, note that the barrel of naphtha in your inventory looks almost identical to an empty barrel.

Making the bomb [ edit | edit source ]

Limestone can be bought on the Grand Exchange, or can be mined on the path to Paterdomus , north-east of Varrock . If you have completed Shades of Mort'ton you can buy cheap limestone from Razmire and you can get there quickly with the minigame teleport . With gloves equipped , use your limestone on a furnace to get quicklime , then grind your quicklime with a pestle and mortar while carrying a pot to get a pot of quicklime (gloves are needed to prevent damage from handling the quicklime). You may choose to use the furnace in the Underground Pass (dungeon) to save time as you will be passing by it in the next segment. Just remember to bring all the ingredients listed below. Grind the sulphur with a pestle and mortar to create ground sulphur . Use four balls of wool on a loom to make a strip of cloth . (There is a loom in the Iorwerth Camp , and another in the farm near Falador .) Mix the ground sulphur and pot of quicklime into your barrel of naphtha . Use the strip of cloth on it to complete the barrel bomb .

Regicide [ edit | edit source ]

Note: The barrel bomb weighs a lot, which may make it more difficult to succeed during agility obstacles such as traps and gap-jumping. One strategy to avoid this is to drop the barrel, cross the barrier, and cast telekinetic grab on the barrel bomb (but telekinetic grab does not work across most of the jumps on the final floor).

Now that you have the barrel bomb , go all the way through the Underground Pass one last time. The coal, gloves, pestle and mortar, pickaxe, and combat gear no longer need to be brought. Kill a rabbit and cook it on any fire. If you did not bring an axe , there are lit fires in the Elven Camp , as well as in Zul-Andra south of Tyras Camp. Then, go to the catapult outside the Tyras Camp . Talk to the guard, and give him some rabbit meat to distract him. Then, use the bomb on the catapult - you will need your tinderbox for this. (If you forgot your tinderbox, you can buy one from the General Store in the camp). You will see a cutscene of your character loading the barrel onto the catapult and launching it at King Tyras ' camp, where it explodes on his tent .

Go back to Lord Iorwerth . He will give you a letter to take to King Lathas and then give you access to the overground pass of Arandar . Teleport out, and go to Ardougne Castle . On the way, you will be approached by an elf named Arianwyn who will break the magic seal on the letter and tell you to read it. You will learn that King Tyras wasn't the main antagonist in the quest and that his brother King Lathas is actually the one serving the Dark Lord . Return the letter to King Lathas to complete the quest.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 13,750 Agility experience 15,000 coins Access to the elven kingdom of Tirannwn and the overpass of Arandar The ability to wield the dragon halberd (With level 60 Attack and 30 Strength ) The ability to charter a ship to Port Tyras The ability to use Iorwerth camp teleport scrolls The ability to use Zul-Andra teleport scrolls and battle Zulrah

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Regicide is required for the following:

Roving Elves

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest. Click here for a transcript of the quest's journal entry.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

25 July 2019 ( update ) | Two barrel spawns have been added to one of the tents in the elven Iorwerth Camp.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The catapult featured in the quest is based on a trebuchet . A mixture of naphtha and quicklime is one theorised composition of Greek fire . The tent in Tyras camp seems undamaged even when you enter the camp right after the cutscene. You can repeatedly drop and cast Telekinetic Grab on Iorwerth's message while walking to King Lathas in the Ardougne Castle to prevent Arianwyn from spawning, but when you try to talk to King Lathas with the message in your inventory he just says he's busy and for you to come back later.

v • t • e Regicide

NPCs | Tyras guard Chemist General Hining King's Messenger Elves Idris Morvran Essyllt Lord Iorwerth Elf Tracker Arianwyn Elf warrior Ardougne Royalty King Lathas King Tyras |  | Tyras guard Chemist General Hining King's Messenger | Elves | Idris Morvran Essyllt Lord Iorwerth Elf Tracker Arianwyn Elf warrior | Ardougne Royalty | King Lathas King Tyras

 | Tyras guard Chemist General Hining King's Messenger

Elves | Idris Morvran Essyllt Lord Iorwerth Elf Tracker Arianwyn Elf warrior

Ardougne Royalty | King Lathas King Tyras

Items | Crystal pendant Big book of bangs Strip of cloth Raw rabbit Cooked rabbit Messages King's Iorwerth's Sulphur Normal Ground Limestone Brick Quicklime Pot of quicklime Barrels Barrel Coal tar Barrel of naphtha Naphtha mix Barrel bomb |  | Crystal pendant Big book of bangs Strip of cloth Raw rabbit Cooked rabbit | Messages | King's Iorwerth's | Sulphur | Normal Ground | Limestone | Brick Quicklime Pot of quicklime | Barrels | Barrel Coal tar Barrel of naphtha Naphtha mix Barrel bomb

 | Crystal pendant Big book of bangs Strip of cloth Raw rabbit Cooked rabbit

Messages | King's Iorwerth's

Sulphur | Normal Ground

Limestone | Brick Quicklime Pot of quicklime

Barrels | Barrel Coal tar Barrel of naphtha Naphtha mix Barrel bomb

Locations | Underground Pass Well of Voyage Iban's Temple Isafdar Iorwerth Camp Poison Waste Port Tyras Tyras Camp Rimmington

Music | Breeze Crystal Castle Elven Mist Everywhere Forest Lost Soul Meridian Overpass Riverside Well of Voyage Woodland

Related | Quick guide Transcript Fractionalising still