 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Roving Elves (#70)





Released | 7 February 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Elf , #5

Lead developer(s) | Dylan C



Roving Elves is a sequel to the Waterfall Quest and Regicide . It revolves around consecrating the tomb of King Baxtorian on behalf of his and Glarial 's grandson Islwyn , who is roving the forests of Isafdar with Eluned .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Islwyn inside the elven woods of Isafdar . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Short

Description | Deep in the elven forests of Isafdar, live a duo of roving elves: Islwyn a grumpy, old elf who dislikes humans and his companion, Eluned , who is a beautiful, friendly, young female elf with a kind heart. In this quest, you are challenged to overcome Islwyn's prejudice against humans and alleviate the burdens of the past.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Regicide Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City Waterfall Quest The ability to defeat a level 84 enemy unarmed, with heavy restrictions 56 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) , unless travelling with a charter ship to the elven woods

Items required | Glarial's pebble (can be obtained during the quest) Key (can be obtained during the quest) Spade Rope

Recommended | 60 Combat level The requirements to start Mourning's End Part I directly after this quest, to obtain the teleport crystal 60 Ranged ( not boostable ) 50 Thieving ( not boostable ) Completion of Sheep Herder and Big Chompy Bird Hunting Antipoison and food Ring of recoil , goblin paint cannon , prayer potions (for players with 43 Prayer to sustain Protect from Melee ) and a super combat potion in the fight against the Moss Guardian . Fast travel to the Waterfall Dungeon and Glarial's Tomb ( Games necklace or minigame teleport to the Barbarian Outpost, or skills necklace to the Fishing Guild) Fast travel to Islwyn and Eluned ( Iorwerth camp teleport or charter ship to Port Tyras) Ring of Charos (a) to reduce charter ship costs, if travelling with them

Enemies to defeat | Moss Guardian (level 84) (has to be killed with restricted items , can be flinched )

Ironman concerns | You must briefly visit Glarial's Tomb which has significant item restrictions . Items dropped outside the tomb may be picked back up within three minutes.

League notes | Unlocking Tirannwn ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Islwyn to start the quest. He will be found with his companion Eluned in one of two locations in Isafdar . Refer to the map for the possible locations and the routes towards them. Head towards either of these spots; if he isn't there, switch to another world until you find him. These elven woods may be reached by travelling with a charter ship ( Port Tyras ), using an Iorwerth camp teleport or by traversing through the Underground Pass or by using the overpass of Arandar .

Note that travelling through Isafdar can be rather dangerous due to the vast amount of traps, that deal up to 15 damage at once and may apply poison. Food and antipoison are recommended.

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

After the events of Regicide , the player decides to help the rebelling elves, led by Arianwyn , against Lord Iorwerth 's apparent scheme to take over Camelot . Arianwyn sent out scouts, Islwyn and Eluned , to guide you to their holdout. However, Islwyn seemingly distrusts any human and will not assist you, as it was an act of humans that led to his grandmother's death. He will mention that his grandmother was Glarial , whose remains you moved from her tomb to the Waterfall Dungeon during the Waterfall Quest . He will be surprised and relieved upon hearing this, as he believes this to be the perfect resting place for her.

Islwyn changes his mind and will help you, on the condition you complete the ritual of burying her. Speak with Eluned to learn about this ritual. She will tell you to retrieve the consecration seed from her previous resting place. Talk to Eluned before leaving for the tomb or you will not be able to retrieve the seed.

You will require Glarial's pebble to enter the tomb. If you have lost this, speak with Golrie in the Tree Gnome Village Dungeon to obtain another.

The consecration seed [ edit | edit source ]

Having talked with Eluned, head towards Glarial's Tomb and use the pebble to enter it. Note that there will be many restrictions to entering the tomb.

You will need to kill any level-84 Moss Guardian to retrieve the consecration seed. Because of the restrictions towards entering the tomb, you will have to fight it using unarmed melee. Prayer , food and potions may be used and it is advised to do so. As the Moss Guardian does physical damage, or unavoidable magical damage if the physical damage doesn't land, it is recommended to pray Protect from Melee . The ring of recoil will also prove effective. You can wield the goblin paint cannon to increase your attack speed, as it isn't restricted. You can wear H.A.M. clothing for a little extra defence bonus. It is also possible to flinch it by standing directly south of the south-eastern pillar when fighting the Moss Guardian directly west of the entrance.

Take the consecration seed back to Eluned , who has possibly moved to the other location shown on the map. If she has moved, you can switch worlds until she appears. She will enchant the seed by casting a silent spell on it. If you lose the seed after this point, you may return to her for a new one.

Through the waterfall [ edit | edit source ]

Travel to the Waterfall Dungeon with all the required items. Similar to how you entered it during the Waterfall Quest , board the raft in the middle of the lake above the Baxtorian Falls . It will crash just before the waterfall. Then, use the rope on the rock to the south, followed by the dead tree hanging on the edge. You will then find yourself in front of the dungeon entrance.

Inside the dungeon, search the northernmost crates in the eastern room to find a key . With this key, open the locked doors in the western rooms, and proceed to the room with the Chalice of Eternity . Bury the seed anywhere next to the chalice to complete the ritual, laying Glarial 's spirit to rest.

Ending [ edit | edit source ]

Head back to Islwyn to claim your reward. You will be given a choice between a free, but partly used, crystal shield or crystal bow . Both can be bought later from him, for 750,000 and 900,000 coins respectively. These items have charges that deplete when using them, after which they will become unusable until recharged by Ilfeen , for a varying cost.

You will need the crystal bow for the Hard Western Provinces Diary . Therefore, in addition to its higher cost, it is advised to take the bow.

If you have the requirements to start Mourning's End Part I , it's highly recommended to speak to Eluned after claiming your reward in order to start the quest. By doing so, Eluned will teleport you to Arianwyn in Lletya , while also granting you a teleport crystal with 4 charges that can be used to teleport there (and Prifddinas upon completion of the Song of the Elves quest). Eluned may have moved locations during the prior dialogue; in this case just switch worlds until she reappears.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 10,000 Strength experience Crystal shield or bow with 500 charges

Unlocks:

Moss Guardian accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Roving Elves is required for the following:

Mourning's End Part I

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The dialogue option for choosing the crystal shield as a quest reward is "I don't like running and hiding behind mushrooms. Give me the shield!". This refers to how the Tyras guard can be safespotted in Regicide .

v • t • e Roving Elves

NPCs | Islwyn Eluned Glarial Moss Guardian

Items | Key Glarial's pebble Consecration seed

Rewards | Crystal bow Crystal shield

Locations | Isafdar Glarial's Tomb Waterfall Dungeon

Related | Quick guide Transcript Crystal growth