 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Rum Deal (#90)





Released | 31 October 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Pirate , #1

Lead developer(s) | Anthony W



Rum Deal is the first quest in the pirate quest series , centering around the task of getting the production of 'rum' restarted as a band of angry, protesting undead pirates stake out Braindeath Island .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Pirate Pete , at a dock due north of Port Phasmatys . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Zombie pirates have arisen on Braindeath Island , and they don't look friendly! Production of 'rum' has stopped, and the pirate brewers are running scared. Can you overcome the horde of drunken, undead pirates? Can you even get to the island without getting a splitting headache?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Zogre Flesh Eaters Big Chompy Bird Hunting Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual Priest in Peril 42 Crafting ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 50 Fishing ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 40 Farming ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 47 Prayer ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 42 Slayer ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) The ability to kill a combat level 150 monster (can be safespotted )

Items required | Rake (obtainable during the quest) Seed dibber (obtainable during the quest) or partial completion of the Farming portion of the Barbarian Training miniquest Bucket (obtainable during the quest) At least 47 prayer points for the Evil spirits part of the quest

Recommended | 50 Combat level Means to deal damage at range ( Magic , Ranged or a Halberd ) or means to negate disease (such as Slayer gloves or a Relicym's balm ) Ectophial for fast travel to the quest starting point Stamina or energy potions Ring of Charos (a) and a tinderbox for some funny dialogue with 50% Luke

Enemies to defeat | Evil spirit (level 150) (safespottable) Fever spider (level 49) (safespottable)

League notes | Unlocking Morytania ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Setting out [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Pirate Pete at the dock north-east of the Ectofuntus to start the quest. Pirate Pete claims to be a dispossessed nobleman who needs to reclaim his family sword in order to defeat his evil half-brother, who has stolen his lands and is now terrorizing the local lemon farmers. Agree to help him, after which he will warn you about his brother's dangerous ally, the demon Barrelor the Destroyer. Agree nonetheless; Pete will explain his half-brother has stolen most of his fortune, but he will gladly part with what remains for your help. Refuse the money he offers you. He will instruct you to pick up a diversion, knock you out and row you to a secret location.

A cutscene ensues in which Pete delivers you, tied up and unconscious, to a worried pirate captain, revealing that the entire story was fabricated. Upon awakening, you will find yourself in a small room with the captain, who will explain that you are in the brewery on the secret Braindeath Island . He introduces himself as Captain Braindeath , and explains that a week ago the island came under siege of a group of zombie pirates protesting. He needs to make some 'rum' in order to get the protesters' leader Captain Donnie drunk, after which Braindeath and his brewers can sneak out of the factory and set up a new brewery elsewhere. You will have to gather the ingredients to make the rum.

Braindeath will give you a seed in order to grow the first ingredient, blindweed . He explains the zombie swabs have trashed the previous blindweed patches, but that intimidation should be sufficient to get rid of them.

Brewing "rum" [ edit | edit source ]

If you don't have the rake and seed dibber yet, go down the ladder in the north-west corner of the building to the basement, and then head south-east past the spiders to find a cupboard . There, take the rake and seed dibber from the cupboard.

Leave the building by the southernmost stairway, towards the farming patches . You may be attacked by zombie swabs ; walk out of combat and right-click to "Intimidate" them, which permanently stops them from attacking you. A picture of a kitten will be shown to censor your insults.

The only usable farming patch is the south-eastern one. Use your rake on the patch to remove the weeds and then plant the seed (requires 40 Farming ). Wait a few minutes for the blindweed to grow; you will receive the notification " I wonder how my blindweed is coming along... ". Harvest the crop. Note: Should you lose the blindweed after this, Braindeath will give you some he had had in storage all along.

Return to Captain Braindeath , who will tell you to put the blindweed in the hopper upstairs. Use the south-eastern ladder to climb upstairs and then use the blindweed on the hopper in the north-western corner of the room. You can ignore the lever for now. Talk to Captain Braindeath for the next ingredient; stagnant water .

Braindeath will hand you a bucket unless you already have one. You will have to travel to a nearby volcano and fill the bucket with the stagnant water.

Leave the house via the south stairway again and exit the outside fence, then travel north-west to find 50% Luke guarding a small gate (you may equip a Ring of charos (a) or use a tinderbox on him for some amusing dialogue). Pass the gate behind him and travel up the volcano to collect the stagnant water. Return to the house, pour the water into the hopper, and talk to Captain Braindeath .

Braindeath will give you a fishbowl tangled in a big net . Note: If you untangle the fishbowl and net, you have to use them on each other to re-tangle them. Head to the fishing spots near the farming patch you used earlier. You have to catch a total of FIVE (5) sluglings or karamthulhu and add them to the pressure barrel upstairs in the building, next to the hopper. Pull the lever, and the brewing control apparatus downstairs will start to spin and shake uncontrollably. Return to Captain Braindeath .

The captain will tell you that the controls for the brewery have become possessed, which "occasionally happens". He will give you a wrench in order to beat the controls with it, but remarks that it requires a blessing first for the possessing spirit to come out. Head to the west side of the house and get your wrench blessed by former priest Davey . He will only bless the wrench if you have 47 or more available prayer points . Note that this does not drain any prayer points.

Now, beat up the controls with the holy wrench . They are located directly south of Captain Braindeath. As soon as you hit the controls, a level 150 Evil spirit will appear and attack you. His attacks can be negated with Protect from Melee , or by using a safespot with Ranged , Magic , or a halberd .

Having defeated the evil spirit, Captain Braindeath will tell you that the final ingredient is the carcass of a diseased fever spider . You must complete the dialogue with him or the carcass will not drop!

Go down the nearby ladder into the basement and kill a fever spider. Be warned that fever spiders inflict disease on hit, even with Protect from Melee ; you can circumvent this by using a safespot or having slayer gloves equipped, or using a cure such as Relicym's balm . Collect its carcass, use it on the hopper, and return to Captain Braindeath.

Note that killing the fever spider completes a medium Morytania Diary task.

Sowing some blindweed amidst the terrified zombie crew of The Inebriated. Collecting a bucket of stagnant water. Using the fishbowl and net to catch sluglings. Battling the evil spirit.

Captain Donnie [ edit | edit source ]

Now that the 'rum' is complete, collect some with a bucket from the output tap at the south end of the machinery. Braindeath gives you a bucket if you don't already have one.

Head outside and find Captain Donnie near the farming patches to give him the unsanitary swill . He will smell the 'rum' and demand you hand it over, downing it as quickly as possible. He will then accidentally disclose the name of his boss, Rabid Jack . Return to Captain Braindeath to inform him of this. He will be shocked at Jack's name before pretending he had never heard of it before. He then thanks you for your help and announces the brewery is not going to be relocated, and they will keep the zombies too drunk to be a bother.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 7,000 Fishing experience 7,000 Prayer experience 7,000 Farming experience The Holy wrench (while in your inventory, this grants more prayer points when drinking a prayer potion ) Access to Braindeath Island

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Rum Deal is required for the following:

Cabin Fever

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

There are a few references when talking to the brewers: One of the brewers in the 'rum' factory quotes a line from Monty Python 's Dirty Hungarian Phrasebook : "My hovercraft is full of eels". One brewer says "Game over man, game over!", which is a reference to the movie Aliens . Another asks, after the player inquires about the priest, "Do you need a young priest or an old priest?" This is a reference to The Exorcist . 50% Luke says he was restored with witchwood, which may be a reference to wizardwood in Robin Hobb's Liveship Traders trilogy. Part of Davey 's blessing is "Romanes Eunt Domus", which is barbarised Latin for "Romans go home". This is a reference to Monty Python's Life of Brian . The other type of fish that can be caught besides sluglings is called Karamthulhu . This is another in-game reference to H. P. Lovecraft 's Cthulhu , which is described as having tentacles as a main physical feature. When Davey blesses the wrench , the camera will zoom in on the player who then holds up the wrench and says "Groovy". This is a reference to the 1981 film Evil Dead and sequel Evil Dead 2 , when the main character Ash cuts his own possessed hand off and replaces it with a chainsaw. When attacking the Evil spirit , the player will say: "The power of Guthix compels you!" This is a reference to the movie The Exorcist , where the priest yells: "The power of Christ compels you!" When the player asks 50% Luke "So what goes on here?", he says "You expect me to talk?", to which they reply "No Mr Luke, I expect you to die". This is a reference to the James Bond film Goldfinger . Also when asked "So how flammable are you?", he will reply, "Don't make me angry! Ye'll not like me when I'm angry"; this is a reference to The Incredible Hulk when Bruce Banner tells Jack McGee, "Mr. McGee, don't make me angry. You wouldn't like me when I'm angry". If the player tries to pull the pressure lever without putting in the five sea creatures, they will get the message You do not yet have the five sea creatures in the barrel! , even if they haven't got the message from Captain Braindeath . One of the lines that the zombie pirates say is "United we stagger", a reference to the motto "United we stand". When getting a bucket of 'rum', a message will appear: You carefully fill the bucket with the foul-smelling swill. When examining the bucket with 'rum', it says Sorry, I mean a bucket of 'rum'. The quest title Rum Deal may be a reference to the phrase Bum Deal , when somebody gets the poor end of the deal, where the player has lots of menial tasks to complete. When examining the Evil spirit, it states The pun was intended. , referring to 'spirit' being another term for alcohol. Pirate Pete talks about fighting a demon named Barrelor, which is not an actual monster, but later in the quest series the player fights Barrelchest . The blessing of the wrench uses the same animation as the summoning ritual in Shadow of the Storm using demonic sigils . In particular, Agrith Naar 's symbol can be seen. Using the fever spider corpse on Captain Braindeath will cause him to say "What are ye doin', lad? I want ye to shove that in the hopper, not in me face!", and, "Ye just can't get good help these days..."

v • t • e Rum Deal

NPCs | Pirate Pete Captain Braindeath Davey Brewer Zombies Captain Donnie 50% Luke Zombie protester Zombie swab Zombie pirate Monsters Evil spirit Fever spider |  | Pirate Pete Captain Braindeath Davey Brewer | Zombies | Captain Donnie 50% Luke Zombie protester Zombie swab Zombie pirate | Monsters | Evil spirit Fever spider

 | Pirate Pete Captain Braindeath Davey Brewer

Zombies | Captain Donnie 50% Luke Zombie protester Zombie swab Zombie pirate

Monsters | Evil spirit Fever spider

Items | Blindweed seed Blindweed Bucket of stagnant water Sluglings Karamthulhu Fishbowl and net Wrench Holy wrench Fever spider body Unsanitary swill Braindeath 'rum'

Locations | Braindeath Island Port Phasmatys

Related | Quick guide Transcript Karamthulhu (unused NPC) Karamthulhu (unused pet) Karamthulhu (unobtainable item)