 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Sea Slug (#36)





Released | 9 September 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Temple Knight , #3

Lead developer(s) | Tom W



Sea Slug is the first quest in the Sea Slug series, and is the only piece of content to prominently feature the Fishing Platform .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Caroline just north of Witchaven . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Something strange is happening on the Fishing Platform . Missing fishermen and the presence of dozens of strange sea creatures gives cause for concern. Investigate the platform, discover the truth before it's too late.

Requirements | 30 Firemaking ( boostable ) ( not required to start )

Items required | Swamp paste (made by mixing flour with swamp tar then cooking the mixture on a fire; can also be bought from a Trader crewmember for 75 coins, from Rasolo for 60 coins west of the Fishing Guild , or from the Khazard General Store for 42 coins at full stock)

Recommended | Small fishing net for Ardougne Medium Diary (can be bought near quest start in Witchaven) Unlit torch (a small glitch might occur where you do not receive the torch during the quest)

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

The Fishing Platform [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Caroline on the coast north of the town of Witchaven , east of Ardougne . She will tell you her husband, Kent , and her son, Kennith , are missing and ask you to go to the Fishing Platform to find them. Holgart has a boat that he can maybe take you in.

Talk to Holgart , and he will tell you his ship is in need of repairs. He will ask you to go and get him one swamp paste to fix it up. The best way to get swamp paste is to buy it directly from the Grand Exchange . Alternatively, you could go to the general store in Port Khazard , located south of Ardougne - a guaranteed source. Another option is to take a ship from Ardougne to Brimhaven , ideally do this before you take the boat or teleport there, and buy some from a Trader Crewmember . This will cost 60 coins extra though (30 coins for each trip). Once you give him the swamp paste, Holgart will appear in a cut scene fixing the boat. Talk to him again to go to the Fishing Platform.

Note : You cannot use swamp tar . However, you can mix swamp tar with flour and cook it on a fire (does NOT work on a range ) to create swamp paste.

Investigate [ edit | edit source ]

When you arrive, you will notice the odd behaviour of everyone as they all seem to be in a zombie-like trance. Avoid interacting with the sea slugs ; they will deal 3 damage if picked up.

Tip: You can catch a fish here to complete a task for the Ardougne Medium Diary.

Look around and find Bailey inside a small room in the south-west corner of the platform. Talk to him, he will tell you about the odd happenings and the hauling up of the sea slugs. Also, pick up the broken glass on the floor there for later in the quest.

Helping Kennith [ edit | edit source ]

Pick up some damp sticks close to the ladder in the north-east corner of the platform, then climb up the ladder. Upstairs, in a room on the west side, past the crane, you will find Kennith . He will tell you that his father tried to leave days ago, but the fishermen stopped him from doing so. He will ask you to find his father, Kent and help him.

Go back to Holgart and talk to him. He will take you to a deserted island, where you will find Kennith's father stranded. Talk to Kent and he will tell you his story. Then ask Holgart to take you back to the platform. Talk to Bailey to find out the slugs' weakness - they are afraid of heat. He will give you an unlit torch , which he cannot light himself as it is too damp. Use the broken glass on the damp sticks , which are found near the ladder to dry them , then rub them together to light the torch (given by Bailey). ( Note: If you do not light the torch before attempting to go upstairs, you will be damaged by a fisherman. )

Climb up the ladder again (on the north-east of the platform), go into the room, and talk to Kennith . From outside the room, kick the badly repaired wall to make an opening, then use your lit torch on any fisherman or sea slugs nearby and then talk to Kennith again. Rotate the crane to save him, shown in a cut scene. Talk to Holgart to return to shore. Finish the quest by talking to Caroline .

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 7,175 Fishing experience Access to the Fishing Platform Oyster pearls

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Sea Slug is required for the following:

The Slug Menace

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Whilst the player attempts to talk to a Fisherman , one of the dialogues involve the player saying, You'd better start making sense Sonny Jim or I'll... . This is a reference to Sonny Jim , a British saying that means, "A familiar or patronising term of address for a male person".

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

24 July 2007 ( update ) | The quest was renamed from "Sea Slug Quest" to "Sea Slug".

v • t • e Sea Slug

NPCs | Caroline Kent Kennith Holgart Bailey Witchaven villager Jeb

Items | Broken glass Sea slug Damp sticks Dry sticks

Locations and scenery | Fishing Platform Witchaven Bottle Kennith's ball

Music | Fruits de Mer

Related | Quick guide Sea slugs