 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Shadow of the Storm (#91)





Released | 14 November 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Demon Slayer , #2

Lead developer(s) | John A



Shadow of the Storm is a quest that continues the plot of Demon Slayer . It involves the villain Denath once more, as well as his group of followers attempting to summon a dangerous demon named Agrith-Naar .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Father Reen , south of Al Kharid bank. Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | A sinister group of dark wizards is attempting to summon Agrith-Naar, a demon of exceptional mystical power. Rather than try to prevent them, a Saradominist priest asks the player to help summon the demon and then kill it once and for all.
But all is not as it seems...

Requirements | 30 Crafting ( boostable ) Completion of the following quests: The Golem Demon Slayer The ability to defeat a level 100 demon

Items required | Silverlight (obtainable at start of quest) Strange implement (obtainable during quest) Any black outfit (minimum of 3 pieces, see below for the allowed gear — the dyed Silverlight does not count as a piece of black clothing) Note: You can make a black desert robe and shirt during the quest if you brought a desert robe and shirt Black dye (from grinding a black mushroom using a pestle and mortar alongside a vial) Silver bar Means to enter the desert (such as the Shantay pass , Desert amulet 2 , Teleport tablets or scrolls , Fairy rings or the Pharaoh's sceptre )

Recommended | 50 Combat level Fast travel to Al Kharid to start the quest ( Amulet of Glory or Ring of Dueling ) Fast travel to Uzer ( Necklace of Passage to Eagles' Eyrie, Fairy Rings to D L Q or using the magic carpet transport) Food and armour to defeat a level 100 demon 2 waterskins Chisel and hammer (optional to obtain several gems from the throne, unless already taken during The Golem )

Enemies to defeat | Agrith-Naar (level 100)

League notes | Desert ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting Out [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Silverlight , 3 items of black clothing (see below), transport to Uzer (e.g. necklace of passage ; or ring of dueling , Shantay pass and 200 coins )

Talk to Father Reen , south of Al Kharid bank. If you do not have a regular Silverlight , he will give you an uncoloured Silverlight free of charge. If you already have a dyed Silverlight, bank the extra Silverlight. If this dialogue is missed, Silverlight can still be obtained at other points in the quest by speaking to him.

After you start, travel to Uzer (you can enter the desert via the Shantay Pass and use the magic carpet , rub a necklace of passage to Eagles' Eyrie and run south-east or travel with fairy rings to D L Q and run north-east). Be sure to bring your Silverlight with you since you won't be able to continue without it. After arriving in Uzer, talk to Father Badden - be sure to talk to him about all your options. If you haven't already, pick a black mushroom. Afterwards, enter the dungeon.

When you try to enter the demon's lair, Evil Dave won't let you by because you aren't evil enough.
You need to wear at least three items of black clothing. There are several ways to achieve this, including:

Dyeing a desert shirt and a desert robe black by picking a black mushroom outside of the dungeon and crafting it into black dye with a vial and pestle and mortar , for two of the three items (does not work on the desert boots ). Wearing any three black armour items. The black gloves available from the Culinaromancer's Chest also function as a black armour item (although this quest must be completed in order to finish the Evil Dave part of Recipe for Disaster) Note: Wearing heraldic or trimmed black armour items will not be accepted by Evil Dave. Wearing a black priest gown purchased from the clothing vendor in Varrock . Wearing dark mystic robes . Wearing ghostly robes from the Curse of the Empty Lord miniquest. Wearing shade robes . Wearing black dragonhide armour . Wearing the Antisanta outfit . Wearing a black cape , black partyhat , black santa hat , black h'ween mask , black dragon mask , and/or a black unicorn mask Wearing black wizard robes , including either trimmed varieties. Wearing a graceful outfit which has been recoloured using dark dye .

The following items are not considered "evil" by Evil Dave:

Ahrim's robes Banshee Top / Robe Black beret Black boater Black cavalier Black defender Black Elegant Shirt Black headband Black knife Black leprechaun hat Black mask Black naval clothing Black satchel Black spiky vambraces Bloodbark armour Cape of skulls Dagon'hai Robes Evil chicken outfit Eyepatch Gloves of silence Mime boots Obsidian cape Robes of darkness Rogue equipment Shayzien Equipment Void knight equipment Vyrewatch clothing Zamorak cape

You also need to dye your Silverlight black using black dye from the same black mushrooms inside the dungeon (this doesn't count as an "evil" item).

Equip your three black items, then tell Evil Dave you want to join the group, and he will let you through the portal. Evil Dave will take you to the leader of the group, Denath . He will tell you that he needs your help to summon Agrith-Naar , since Josef left. He will tell you the incantation to use, which is different for everyone, so you need to write it down. In case you forget the incantation, you can read the tome you'll find later on and cite the phrase in it backwards.

The Ritual [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Silver bar , strange implement (optional), ring of dueling or 200 coins (optional), Shantay pass and 200 coins , or necklace of passage (optional), and 3 free inventory spaces.

Optional : Using a chisel and hammer on the demon's throne will give the player six cut gems: two sapphires , two rubies and two emeralds . While this can be done during The Golem quest, it can alternatively be completed during this quest.

Talk to Jennifer to get a demonic sigil mould . Then, talk to Matthew about Josef. He will tell you to find the book that Josef dropped in order to defeat the demon. Talk to the clay golem and ask if it knows what happened last night; it will explain that Denath killed Josef, but not before Josef hid the book in the kiln outside. You must talk to the golem before you can search the kiln!

In Uzer, search the kilns that are outside until you find a Demonic Tome . There are two close by, and two further away. One is north of the magic carpet, and the other is east of the temple. There are 4 kilns in total.

Go to any furnace (such as the furnace in Lumbridge or in Al Kharid. Fairy Ring D K R to Edgeville furnace is fastest), and make a demonic sigil with your silver bar . With the sigil, you will be able to chant the incantation with the group.

You no longer need your black equipment to enter the portal (But you will need it to  begin the ritual). If you need to gear up for the fight, save a trip and bring what you need. You will need 3 free inventory slots.

Read the book and return through the portal, then hand Matthew the book. Strangely enough, the incantation for summoning the demon that's written in the book is backwards to the one that Denath told you to say. This is due to the fact that the incantation in the book is one to summon the demon (forward) while the one Denath told you was to return him back to the demon plane (backwards).

When you have finished, Denath will call you over to stand next to him and lead the incantation. Using your sigil, chant it in the order that he told you (if you have forgotten, it's written in the book, but backwards). After the portal is opened, instead of the demon coming out of it, Denath will walk into it and disappear. It turns out Denath was Agrith-Naar all along, and you actually desummoned him by saying the incantation backwards , as he intended.

This demon becomes much more powerful in his own dimension, so you need to resummon him and defeat him. Pick up the sigil that Denath dropped (if you don't, you will have to make another one) .

Evil Dave , Eric , and Tanya will have run away, so chase after them through the portal. Tanya is killed by ghosts, so take her sigil as well. Eric is killed by a falling stone. Convince Evil Dave to return to the lair, and he will give you Eric's sigil. Leave the dungeon and talk to Father Badden and Father Reen . Convince them to help with the ritual and give them both a sigil. You need one more individual to complete the incanctation, so talk to the Clay Golem . However, he was programmed to never help summon demons. Use the strange implement (can be found in the lair) on him to take out the scroll about demon rituals. Speak to the golem again and he will agree to help you.

The Final Fight [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Return to the demon's lair, enter the portal and talk to Matthew to get everyone to stand in the circle. Chant the incantation with your sigil, this time in the order that you read in the book (the opposite order that you chanted it in last time). Agrith-Naar will immediately appear and turn to Matthew, killing him in the belief that he started the ritual. Your character will then say that you commenced it, prompting the demon to attack you.

Note: You cannot use a Dwarf multicannon during the bossfight, as you'll get a message saying " Some kind of demonic magic prevents the cannon from functioning".

Agrith-Naar is a level 100 demon who remains in the same position throughout the fight. He uses both Melee and Fire Blast depending on where you are and what Protection prayers you have activated. He uses melee by default, but switches to Fire Blast if you activate Protect from Melee or walk out of range. If you walk out of melee range and activate Protect from Magic , he will cast Telekinetic Grab to teleport you next to him. Note: You can potentially have full protection by using Protect from Magic and flinching from two squares away, running out of melee range immediately after he casts Telekinetic Grab. However this method requires precise timing and is not simple to pull off.

You must hit the final blow with Silverlight in order to win the fight. If Agrith-Naar is reduced to zero hit-points through any other method, a message will appear stating " You can't kill Agrith-Naar except with Silverlight. " and his health will be restored to 12. Note: If timed well, it is however possible to deal the last blow with any other weapon than the Silverlight, as long as you stand next to the boss and swap back to the Silverlight right before the last hit is registered.

Warning : If you are flinching the boss with the Silverlight and move behind a pillar or torch before the final blow is registered (between the XP drop and the damage being dealt), then it will not count, and Agrith-Naar will recover a small bit of health.

Once the demon is dead, your Silverlight will have been merged with the demon's blood into a stronger weapon, the Darklight . Note: If your prayer runs out during the message or you cancel the chat, un-equipping Darklight will trigger the final dialogue to complete the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 10,000 experience in any combat skill other than Prayer . Silverlight turns into the Darklight sword - it has a special attack and is even more powerful against demons . It costs slightly more to replace. Six cut gems: two sapphires , two rubies and two emeralds , if you use a hammer and chisel on the demon's throne and had not yet removed them during The Golem .

Unlocks:

Agrith-Naar accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Shadow of the Storm is required for the following:

Recipe for Disaster ( Freeing Evil Dave )

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

When Patrick says he will get a small piece of coloured paper, he is referring to a partyhat . If you removed the gems from the throne during The Golem , Evil Dave will complain that the lack of gems diminishes the evil ambience of the throne room. If you talk to Eric and walk away before he's finished talking, he will do the " Angry " emote and say "Don't ignore me!" If you talk to Tanya and use the dialogue choice, "Oh?", she will say, "I shall be a dark queen over all Gielinor! All shall love me and despair!" This line paraphrases a monologue delivered by the character Galadriel in The Fellowship of the Ring . If you speak with the rug merchant while the sandstorm is brewing outside the temple, he will still allow travel, exclaiming "Ali Morrisane's carpet fleet flies in any weather" When you question the clay golem as to why Father Badden despises him so much, the golem replies, "He should know that I could never hurt him. The first command in a golem's mind is that it cannot allow a human being to come to harm." This is a reference to Isaac Asimov's First Law of Robotics . Prior to a patch, it was possible to use the Silverlight sword acquired at the beginning of the quest to complete Demon Slayer in under a minute, by skipping a portion of the quest where you must collect keys. This was patched on November 28th, 2018. After completing the quest, Evil Dave says "I'm not going to try to be evil any more. From now on I'm going to be good!" Evil Dave will not present the player with the challenge clue for the hard anagram clue "VEIL VEDA" while he is in the ruins of Uzer.

v • t • e Shadow of the Storm

NPCs | Father Reen Father Badden Evil Dave Denath Jennifer Matthew Eric Tanya Clay golem Patrick Josef Sand storm Enemies Agrith Naar |  | Father Reen Father Badden Evil Dave Denath Jennifer Matthew Eric Tanya Clay golem Patrick Josef Sand storm | Enemies | Agrith Naar

 | Father Reen Father Badden Evil Dave Denath Jennifer Matthew Eric Tanya Clay golem Patrick Josef Sand storm

Enemies | Agrith Naar

Items | Black mushroom Black dye Black desert shirt Black desert robe Silverlight (dyed) Demonic sigil mould Demonic sigil Demonic tome Strange implement

Rewards | Darklight

Music | Incantation Grip of the Talon

Related | Quick guide