 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Shades of Mort'ton (#61)





Released | 18 October 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tytn H



Shades of Mort'ton is a quest that takes place in Morytania . The town of Mort'ton is overrun with Shades, and a strange affliction has taken over the townspeople. The player uncovers an old cure for the affliction and must help the village.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Find the Diary of Herbi Flax on a shelf in a house at the village of Mort'ton . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | The townsfolk of Mort'ton have some form of strange affliction and the town is full of Shades. Can you find some way to reverse this?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Priest in Peril 20 Crafting ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 15 Herblore ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 5 Firemaking ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) Must be able to defeat 5 level-40 Loar Shades . Must be able to survive an onslaught when rebuilding the Temple (Being surrounded by many players makes this much easier). Access to Mort'ton

Items required | 5000+ coins (bring plenty of money just in case) 2 Tarromin potion (unf) (made by adding 2 clean Tarromins (obtainable during quest) to 2 vials of water (empty vials are obtainable during quest)) Tinderbox An axe for cutting pyre logs 2 Ashes Prior to building the temple, you need a hammer (1 coin at the general store ). However, a regular hammer is insufficient to build the temple without a large group. An additional 13,000 coins (or 5,156 on the Grand Exchange ) allows you to buy a Flamtaer hammer from Razmire, which is necessary to complete this part of the quest without a group.

Recommended | 25 Combat level Combat equipment Food Mort'ton teleport scroll or Barrows teleport tablet to teleport to Mort'ton 25 swamp paste 2 or 3 tarromin herbs, ashes , and spare logs Druid pouch (only if travelling through the swamp with ghasts ) 1 to 4 Flamtaer bracelets (HIGHLY recommended; the minigame is occasionally unpopulated) Flamtaer hammer (HIGHLY recommended; the minigame is occasionally unpopulated) 11 inventory slots

Enemies to defeat | 5 Loar Shades (level 40)

League notes | Morytania ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting to Mort'ton [ edit | edit source ]

Make sure you have all the items you need BEFORE you go to Mort'ton. It's a really long walk to get to the bank from there unless you have at least started the quest In Aid of the Myreque and have repaired the bank in Burgh de Rott .

The quickest way to Mort'ton is with the use of Mort'ton teleport scrolls . Alternatively if you have access to Fairy rings , taking the ring with code B K R and running to the boat at The Hollows will be your second quickest option. If you are 50 Agility or higher, take the ring with code B I P and use the hopping stone to the swamp. Players who have completed the hard Morytania diary can teleport to Burgh de Rott using Morytania Legs 3 and running north. Another option is to use a Barrows teleport tablet, then run west.

In the absence of the above three methods; to get to Mort'ton, head west out of Canifis until you see a farming patch . Head south-west through the gate to get to Mort Myre Swamp . From here, head west to the river, and simply hug it, proceeding south until you hit a bridge. Simply follow the path until you hit Mort'ton, ignoring the two dead ends along the way. Note: You must start Nature Spirit to access the gate leading to Mort Myre Swamp.

Starting the quest [ edit | edit source ]

In order to start Shades of Mort'ton, you must head to the most south-western house in Mort'ton and search the shelf on the wall to find a book . You should also search the smashed table , as it contains two Tarromin and Rogue's purse . The Tarromin will allow you to create additional potions later on, so hang onto those. The Rogue's purse is not used in this quest, and can safely be dropped (Save the Rogue's purse if you plan to do Zogre Flesh Eaters ). This building also contains a vial spawn in case you didn't bring vials of water with you. You can fill the vials in the sink in the easternmost building.

Serum 207 and killing shades [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 300+ coins , vial of water , tarromin , ashes , food , armour , and a weapon .

Reading the book will now allow you to create Serum 207 , a combination of a water-filled vial , tarromin and ashes . Using Serum 207 on the afflicted in town (those with specific names) will allow you to speak with them momentarily . Having multiple sets of the ingredients will allow you to create more potions if necessary, so it is recommended to bring multiple sets. Serum 207 may be traded, but you must make at least one yourself in order to use it for the purposes of the quest.

Make a Serum 207 (add ashes to a Tarromin potion (unf) ), and use it on Razmire Keelgan in the general store . Razmire will ask you to kill 5 Loar Shades (the level 40 green shadows) and collect their remains . You must talk to Razmire before you kill five shades otherwise they will not count towards the requirement. You must also kill the five shades yourself, you cannot buy five remains off another player. When you're done (there will be a notice in the chat: "That's all five Shades!"), return and use the Serum 207 on Razmire again, and he will take two of the shade remains from you.

Open the general store through Razmire and buy some olive oil . Then ask him to open the builders store, and buy at least one timber beam , one limestone brick , and five swamp paste per timber/limestone.

Now, proceed to Ulsquire Shauncy . He can be found in the house to the south-east, marked on the minimap as containing a water source. Give him a dose of Serum 207, and then one of your shade remains . Talk to him again, and ask what he learned about them; he will joke about rebuilding the temple and experimenting with the sacred flame. Also, ask him what can he tell you about the temple, which is located north-east of the general store, on a small island. Note : Make sure to go through all talk options with Ulsquire (1, 2, 3, 4 in the chat options); failure to do so will result in not being able to interact at all with the temple (the minigame stats *Temple Repair* Repair State ___% Resources __% Sanctity __% will not even appear in the upper right corner of your screen. Interacting with the temple results in a message "You're not quite sure how to fix this" and you'll only see in your quest journal, "Ulsquire seems to know a lot about this area, maybe by exploring the local area I will be able to help the locals").

Repairing the Temple [ edit | edit source ]

Items required:

Hammer or Flamtaer hammer , food , armour , weapon , tinderbox , axe , loar remains , olive oil , and 1+ doses of Serum 207 (2+ recommended). A Flamtaer hammer and a few Flamtaer bracelets are recommended. Building materials: Multiples of limestone brick , timber beam , 5 swamp paste (the swamp paste stacks.)

Now, you must rebuild the temple in order to create the sacred oil needed for a pyre funeral. See Shades of Mort'ton (minigame) for more details of how this works.

A Flamtaer bracelet along with the Flamtaer hammer will allow you to build the temple on your own . It is recommended to bring at least two or three bracelets to build the temple if attempting this solo. A higher Crafting level will also increase the speed of building and repairing the temple.

World 377 is a dedicated world for rebuilding the temple if you're looking for assistance. This part of the quest can be finished much quicker when there are multiple players building the temple. Five or six players, with two or three building the walls and the rest distracting shades from destroying the walls should make for a successful build within a few minutes.

Using the Grouping interface, or doing the quest with friends are possible ways to find other players who can help repair the temple. Peak activity at the Shades of Mort'ton minigame is typically between 12:00 pm and 3:00 pm EST (4:00 pm to 7:00 pm GMT). It may be difficult to find other players using the Grouping interface outside of these times.

While defending/repairing the temple, you will receive a gradually increasing percentage of Sanctity . Sanctity is earned by killing Loar Shades or using your building materials to build/repair pieces of the temple.

In order to progress the quest, ignite the flame once the temple has been built and use the olive oil on the sacred flame with at least 10% Sanctity to create sacred oil .

Optionally (but highly recommended), you can use a vial of Serum 207 on the sacred flame with at least 20% Sanctity to create Serum 208 . A dose each of Serum 208 will permanently cure Razmire and Ulsquire , making them permanently available for dialogue and trade. (Other afflicted citizens also can be "cured" with Serum 208 and will provide small rewards, but they will revert to an afflicted state after a short time.)

Tip: Sanctify the olive oil first, then the Serum 207 . Sacred oil only consumes 0.9% Sanctity per dose to create; since Serum 207 consumes 5% per dose, it can easily reduce Sanctity to below 10%, preventing sanctification of oil even if there would otherwise be enough Sanctity left.

Burning a Shade [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Sacred oil , axe , loar remains , tinderbox .

After you obtain the sacred oil, cut down a dead tree , and use sacred oil on the logs to receive a pyre log . Then, head over to one of the funeral pyres, which are the brown patches on the map west of the General Store. Use the pyre logs on the funeral pyre, followed by the Loar remains . Light this and you will see a spirit rise from the pyre.

Collect your reward from the stone pillar next to the pyre and head back to Ulsquire. Speak with him to prompt the end of the quest (use a serum if he has reverted to being afflicted).

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 2,000 Herblore experience 2,000 Crafting experience Ability to play the Shades of Mort'ton minigame Ability to use the Shades of Mort'ton minigame teleport Bonus: If you take the Diary of Herbi Flax to the Apothecary in Varrock , you'll get an extra 335 Herblore experience (can only be done once).

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

26 January - 25 June 2005 | The quest was renamed from "Shades of Mortton" to "Shades of Mort'ton".

v • t • e Shades of Mort'ton

NPCs | Razmire Keelgan Ulsquire Shauncy Afflicted Mort'ton local Herbi Flax Liornish Stemplehair Enemies Loar Shade |  | Razmire Keelgan Ulsquire Shauncy Afflicted Mort'ton local Herbi Flax Liornish Stemplehair | Enemies | Loar Shade

 | Razmire Keelgan Ulsquire Shauncy Afflicted Mort'ton local Herbi Flax Liornish Stemplehair

Enemies | Loar Shade

Items | Diary Serum 207 Serum 208 Olive oil Sacred oil Loar remains Unfinished potion

Locations | Mort'ton Flamtaer ( Fire altar , Temple wall ) Shade Catacombs

Music | Lair

Related | Shades of Mort'ton (minigame) Quick guide Transcript