 | This quest has a quick guide and a speedrunning guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Sins of the Father (#145)





Released | 4 June 2020 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Myreque , #5

Lead developer(s) | Mod Ed



Sins of the Father is the fifth quest in the Myreque quest series . First announced at RuneFest 2019 , the quest is of Master difficulty and involves a plan, hatched by The Myreque and Vanescula Drakan , to assassinate Lord Drakan himself.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Veliaf Hurtz outside the church in Slepe . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Long

Description | A darkness has fallen over Morytania. The Myreque freedom fighters have achieved their first major victory over the vampyres with the death of Ranis Drakan . However, their newly found hope is unlikely to last. After many years of absence, Lord Lowerniel Drakan , the vampyre overlord of Morytania, has finally emerged from his castle. He has but one goal. To avenge his brother and eradicate the Myreque once and for all.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Vampyre Slayer A Taste of Hope Darkness of Hallowvale In Aid of the Myreque In Search of the Myreque Nature Spirit Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost 62 Woodcutting ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 60 Fletching ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 56 Crafting ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 52 Agility ( not boostable ) 50 Attack ( not boostable ) 50 Slayer ( not boostable ) 49 Magic ( not boostable )

Items required | Any axe Vyrewatch outfit ( top , legs , and shoes ) or 1,950 coins to purchase it from Trader Sven's Black-market Goods (can be obtained during quest) Ivandis flail Ruby Knife (can be obtained during quest) Chisel Runes for Lvl-3 Enchant (1 cosmic rune , 5 fire runes ) or an enchant ruby or topaz tablet

Recommended | 95 Combat level Teleport to Haunted Woods (fairy ring A L Q , Fenkenstrain's Castle Teleport, Kharyrll Teleport, or ectophial will get you close). You may need an additional 10,000 coins to pay Andras for a trip to Slepe Any pickaxe (bronze pickaxe obtainable during quest) A hammer OR any axe which you have the Attack level to wield (bronze axe obtainable during quest). Stamina potions or energy potions Antipoison or Superantipoison potions Drakan's medallion Morytania legs 3 ( Hard Diary ) Combat equipment Food Prayer Potion

Enemies to defeat | Kroy (level 133) Nail beast (level 143 & 67 twice) Vampyre Juvinate (level 119) twice Mutated Bloodveld (level 123) Damien Leucurte (level 204) Vampyre Juvenile (level 122) Vanstrom Klause (level 459)

League notes | Morytania ✓ — location requirement Players attempting to start the quest may find that Veliaf Hurtz is not present in Slepe . If this happens, he must first be interacted with in the Burgh de Rott basement, he will then appear in Slepe.

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Slepe's Sleeper Plague [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way to Slepe by either:

Teleporting to Ver Sinhaza via Drakan's medallion , then heading north. Once you pass the small dock, run east to arrive at Slepe. (If you've lost your medallion , you can reclaim it for free by speaking to Kael underneath Old Man Ral 's.) Using the Ectophial to teleport to the Ectofuntus , then heading north to the small dock and paying Andras 10,000 coins to row to Slepe. You will arrive at a dock just south-west of Slepe.

Once in Slepe, speak to Veliaf Hurtz outside the church. He explains that the town has recently been exposed to an illness known as the Sleeper Plague, in which the afflicted fall into a deep sleep. Through his investigation, he suspects the vampyres are responsible for causing the plague, and asks if you could try and find the source of the illness while he continues his investigation at the Crombwick Manor . Agree to help him.

Enter the church and speak to Hameln the Jester , whose travelling companion, Hanchen the Hound , has succumbed to the Sleeper Plague. Ask him how he fell ill, and he will say that they both visited the local pub, The Rat & Bat , for a few drinks. Shortly afterward, Hanchen began to fall ill and collapse.

Plague's End [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Visit The Rat & Bat just south-east of the church, and talk to Carl the barkeep. Ask him where he gets his bloody bracers from, and he will act suspicious in response to your questions. Inspect the barrel behind the pub, you'll find out that Carl is just about out of Bloody Bracers, and decide to follow him.

Carl will walk around Slepe and periodically turn around, where you will need to hide behind a piece of landscape or building in order to not be caught. If you are caught, you will start from the beginning again.

Go through the church and hide at the north doors, wait there until he passes the doors. Proceed to the hollow tree just north of the graves, and hide on the eastern side. When he reaches the centre square of the town, hide at the northern side of the hollow tree directly next to the gallows. Once he enters the graveyard, hide at the western side of the hollow tree west of the graveyard.

Once Carl reaches the dungeon without you being caught, a cutscene will play in which Carl tells Kroy , a vampyre herbalist, about you and your suspicions. After leaving, Damien Leucurte and Vanstrom Klause visit Kroy, and tells him about his discovery of the Elixir of Everlasting , a formula created by Otrava of The Sisterhood which extends their lives, but with the side effect of sleeping for longer and longer periods until they never wake again.

Damien and Kroy then admit that they were behind the re-emergence of the Sleeper Plague by mixing the Elixir with Bloody bracers , so that they may perform larger blood tithes on the victims, who only require a fraction of the blood a normal human needs. Vanstrom is not happy with this, as he is in charge of Morytania's blood tithes and Damien has not obtained his permission to do this, risking unwanted attention. Vanstrom further warns him that you and The Myreque have already arrived in Slepe, and leaves for Darkmeyer.

Damien introduces Vanstrom to Kroy. Having both left, you proceed to confront Kroy. Fighting Kroy.

Upon both of them leaving, you will enter Kroy's lab. Knowing everything now, Kroy will attack you, using both melee and magic attacks.

During the fight, pray Protect from Magic as his melee damage is lower than magic. Kroy can be harmed by weapons other than the Ivandis flail , so it's recommended to take advantage of this by using ranged and safe-spotting from behind the northern tables.

Kroy will occasionally throw a vial that weakens you if you don't move out of the way. The animation is different from his regular attack; watch for a vial appearing in his hands. It's also visible in the air, meaning that safe-spotting will allow you to see it and move out of the way. After the vial is thrown, provided it does not hit you, a puddle will appear on the floor that will also weaken you if you walk over it. The fight is fairly easy once the mechanics are learned, but bring several pieces of food to be safe.

Upon killing Kroy, destroy the two lab tables and return to Veliaf.

An Unwelcome Surprise [ edit | edit source ]

Note: Ensure that your pet is banked as it will prevent you from starting your trek with Ivan Strom

Upon returning to Veliaf, you report that the vampyres are indeed the cause of the Sleeper Plague, and the conversation between Damien and Vanstrom. Veliaf comments about rumours he heard about the growing demand for blood since the vampyre population has been increasing, and also heard a small part of a conversation between the two at the Crombwick Manor, with Vanstrom accusing Damien of demanding too much blood tithes from the werewolves.

Veliaf concludes that the werewolves are worth investigating, and that the increased demand of blood in Darkmeyer may cause unrest that the Myreque might be able to take advantage of. Before continuing the investigation, Veliaf wishes to check in with Drezel and Ivan Strom at Paterdomus .

Head to Drezel at the Paterdomus . He tells you and Veliaf that the kidnappings by the werewolves has escalated, and that Ivan has overheard of a meeting in the Haunted Woods , which he has went to spy on. Veliaf is angered, asking Drezel why he'd let him go without any support, and that he must be kept safe. You then ask why Ivan is so important, and Drezel reveals he is the last living descendant of Ivandis Seergaze , one of the Seven Priestly Warriors , who originally blessed the River Salve .

After a continuing argument about Ivan's fate, you suggest Veliaf and yourself head to the meeting spot and find Ivan. Ivan can be found directly south of Fenkenstrain's Castle , and the meeting starts shortly. The meeting is between three werewolves and Damien Leucurte, who have delivered a family of three to Damien, confirming the suspicion that werewolves were behind the kidnappings. Ivan proposes that they follow the werewolves, but then Vanescula Drakan , the sister of Lord Lowerniel Drakan , knocks Veliaf back and snares him, you and Ivan.

Vanescula comes to talk with you and the group, offering the chance to kill her last remaining brother, Lord Drakan himself. Veliaf, suspicious of her intentions, asks her why she'd want her brother killed, but she refuses to share them where they are. Rather, she will explain herself at the Icyene Graveyard , providing that all the Myreque members are there. Veliaf believes this to be a trap to lure them all out, but Vanescula reveals that she already knows where the Myreque Hideout is and that if they do not attend, she will kill the entire resistance group.

Left with no choice, Veliaf travels to the Burgh de Rott hideout to inform the rest of the group, and also inform Safalaan 's group in Meiyerditch , while you escort Ivan down to Burgh de Rott. But first, Ivan needs to update Drezel on the situation and collect some things from Paterdomus. He tells you to meet him outside the temple once you're ready.

Head west of Canifis (towards Paterdomus, near fairy ring, "CKS") and talk to Ivan Strom to begin your trek. This escort is similar to Temple Trekking , but there are four set obstacles you and Ivan will face:

River crossing - Use a knife to cut 3 vines from the smaller trees, then wind the vines together to make a long vine . Throw the long vine to the larger tree's branch and swing over the river. If you forgot to bring a knife, search the nearby backpack to find one. Nail beasts - Kill the three nail beasts , who range from level 69 to 141. If Ivan's health is low, use your food on him to heal him. Warning: If you use purple sweets , Ivan will eat the whole stack! Broken bridge - Chop down the trees and use the logs to fill the gaps in the bridge. You must either have a hammer in your inventory or be wielding an axe to repair the bridge. If you forgot to bring an axe, kill the nearby zombie for a bronze axe . Vampyre Juvinates - Kill the two Vampyre Juvinates. You will need a weapon to harm tier 2 vampyres ; the Ivandis flail works best. Immediately attack the vampyre in front of Ivan and then do the same to the other one to avoid Ivan's death. If it fails and Ivan's health is low, use your food on him to heal him.

Once at Burgh de Rott , speak with Ivan Strom, who will head to the dock. After, head to the dock on the southern coast and speak with Veliaf or Ivan Strom. If you do not speak to either Ivan Strom or Veliaf Hurtz prior to boarding the boat, you will not have the option to sail to the Icyene Graveyard.

A Nice and Simple Plan [ edit | edit source ]

Note: There is no combat required during the Icyene Graveyard section.

Head to Icyene Graveyard . Safalaan will greet you and Veliaf, and promote you to lieutenant. Vanescula Drakan appears, and explains her plans. As the human population decreases, the vampyres' has continued to grow, and there is no longer enough blood to go around. And, despite this crisis, their leader, Lowerniel Drakan, has remained absent, spending months in his chambers and refusing to see anyone. She wishes to overthrow her brother, and rule with humans and vampyres coexisting peacefully, as they once did in the Zarosian Empire during the Second Age . She proposes helping the Myreque kill Lowerniel, with the Myreque taking credit for his death so that Vanescula can easily take his place without angering those loyal to Lowerniel. She adds that if the Myreque refuse her proposal, she will kill them if they remain in Morytania, as she can't afford any loose ends.

While Vanescula lets the group think over her proposal, she asks to chat with Safalaan privately. Veliaf, remaining suspicious of her intentions, asks you to join them. Vanescula will reveal that she knows of Safalaan's hidden powers, and that the truth behind his heritage and powers will be found inside the large mausoleum, which was built for Queen Efaritay and King Ascertes , the previous rulers of Morytania (then known as Hallowvale). However, the door is locked, and you must solve a puzzle to open it.

Complete the puzzle, which is similar to the popular game Kakurasu. The objective of the puzzle is to have the active numbers (different for each player), which are marked with the blue and yellow squares in each row/column, to add up to the number shown on that row/column. The red flags are not needed to solve the puzzle, but can help you mark off squares that they think they will not need. An easy place to start is by checking for any numbers in a row or column that are below 5, as you can use that to eliminate some of the possibilities. Additionally, some numbers can only be solved by a certain combination (e.g. 11 can be solved by using the numbers 5,3,2,1 or 5,4,2). To save yourself the trouble of the process of elimination, this external website will solve the puzzle for you.

After the puzzle is complete, a cutscene plays in which you and Safalaan discover that he is the half-icyene and half-human son of Efaritay and Ascertes, and that he once had a sister, Larina Hallow, and that his powers were those of an icyene . Safalaan then asks where his parents' tombs are, since the mausoleum was built for them, but only his sister was found. He agrees to Vanescula's plan to overthrow Lowerniel, on the condition she reveals the whereabouts of his parents and that he be the one who deals the killing blow on her brother. Vanescula reveals that only Lowerniel knows of Efaritay's fate, and that Ascertes underwent the vampyrification process, becoming Vanstrom Klause .

Needing some time alone, Safalaan asks you to speak to Ivan Strom , Vertida Sefalatis , Kael Forshaw , Radigad Ponfit , Polmafi Ferdygris , and lastly Veliaf Hurtz . Note: You must speak with the other members before speaking to Veliaf or he will not agree.

After getting everyone to agree, Vanescula believes that the laboratory beneath Meiyerditch may have more secrets to discover, some of which can potentially upgrade the Ivandis flail to give the Myreque a better fighting chance. You and Safalaan will search the laboratory together.

Prepare for combat and make your way to the laboratory. A quick way to reach it is to teleport to Ver Sinhaza using your Drakan's Medallion and speak to the Vyrewatch next to the bank and request to be sent to the mines; withdraw food and combat equipment before being sent to the mines. Mine 15 daeyalt ore , place ore into empty cart, then talk to a Vyrewatch to get out (if you forgot a pickaxe, you can ask one of the miners for a bronze pickaxe). You will be transported out of the mines. Look around the houses for a staircase that goes down (Laboratory from Darkness of Hallowvale ). The building is against the eastern wall. Go towards the house you had to enter before going up the stairs to make the jump and enter the secret carpet room. From here continue going north-east staying near the eastern wall. You will find the house with a clearly visible large tapestry in one of the rooms, coloured red and yellow. Walk through the slashed tapestry, and go down the stairs.

Talk to Safalaan and you both will explore the laboratory. However, a Mutated Bloodveld will appear, and Safalaan unintentionally unleashes his icyene powers to kill it, knocking him out. Another will appear, and you must kill it. The fight is very simple and straightforward, and the bloodveld can be very easily safespotted. Once you've killed it, speak to Safalaan again, and he will question the usefulness of his powers since he has no control over how and when he could use them.

After speaking to him, head west to the next room and search the bookshelf against the western wall (behind two cages) to obtain a book titled Haemalchemy volume 2 . Return to Safalaan and give him the book. He will then ask you to return to the Icyene Graveyard. Teleport or walk back to Burgh de Rott, run south-east and use the boat back to the Icyene Graveyard.

A Vyre-ry Noble Disguise [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Speak to either Veliaf, Safalaan or Vanescula, who tells you of the Blisterwood tree , a tree created by Efaritay whose wood is lethal to vampyres. She suggests using Blisterwood to enhance the Myreque's weapons. However, the only known Blisterwood tree is found in Efaritay's old Arboretum, in the middle of Darkmeyer. Vanescula suggests modifying a vyrewatch outfit to one of a vampyre noble to blend in better, and Safalaan suggests you take the disguise to Polmafi Ferdygris at the Myreque Hideout under Old Man Ral 's house.

If you don't already have a vyrewatch outfit, you can purchase a set for 1,950 coins from Trader Sven's Black-market Goods directly south of Old Man Ral's house. Head to the Myreque Hideout (down the Trap Door in Old Man Ral's house) and have Polmafi modify your outfit, turning them into a vyre noble outfit, albeit unscented. Return to the Icyene Graveyard and speak to Vanescula.

As the vampyres have a very keen sense of smell, the outfit must be scented with blood, but it must be the blood of a noble, as Darkmeyer's nobility won't go interacting with lesser vampyres. Vanescula suggests killing two birds with one stone by killing Damien Leucurte , who is an obscure, lesser noble and has become a problem that needs to be resolved.

Head to a bank and gear up for the fight, where you'll be taking on Damien (level 204), who can only be harmed with the Ivandis flail. The fight is relatively simple. You'll want to bring some food (especially for lower levels), 1-2 prayer potions, combat potions and a way to cure poison . Once you are ready, head to Slepe where you first spoke to Veliaf. You can either teleport using Drakan's Medallion and run or take the boat from Icyene Graveyard.

You and Veliaf confront Damien Leucurte. You and Veliaf battle against Damien Leucurte.

Damien Leucurte can be found in Crombwick Manor, (the large manor in the northern part of Slepe), to fight him, you must speak with Veliaf where you first start the quest. Damien uses a combination of ranged and magic attacks, periodically spreading magical fire around the room during the fight. You must stamp out the fires or he will become increasingly resistant to your attacks. He can also poison you during the fight. By using Protect from Magic and stamping out the fires he produces, you shouldn't take much damage. Veliaf will help you in the fight, but do not expect him to do much damage.

Once you are victorious and have spoken to Veliaf, return to Icyene Graveyard and speak with Vanescula Drakan, who tells you of a small crack in the southern wall that you can use to enter Darkmeyer.

Note: If you teleport out of the Damien encounter immediately as he hits zero health, your quest guide will update properly but your Vyre Outfit will continue to be the Unscented version. If this happens, it will vanish after you speak with Vanescula and will need to be reclaimed from the Myreque base under Old Man Ral's house. The stairs in Kroy's lab lead back to the manor if the player misses the dialogue with Veliaf.

The Branches of Darkmeyer [ edit | edit source ]

Wear your vyre noble disguise and ask any vyrewatch to send you to the mines. As they perceive you to be a noble, you need not mine any daeyalt ore to leave; you will simply be escorted out. Once you exit the mine, head north to the crack and enter it to arrive in Darkmeyer. You will arrive at the lower tier of the city; prior to the quest's completion, you will not be able to access any of the features, which includes the bank. You can however use the altar south of the bank.

Make your way to the Arboretum in the middle of the city, and attempt to enter; a guard named Desmodus Lasiurus will stop you, telling you that the Drakans have ordered that no one can enter the Arboretum. You will ask him if there is anything you can do for him to give you access, and he will say a juvinate named Mordan Nikazsi was supposed to deliver some slaves ( Maria and Ron Gadderanks ) to him, but he has not shown up.

Mordan Nikazsi can be found in the lower tier of the city in a house near the eastern outer wall in a building with a water source icon ( ), two houses north of the furnace. He tells you that he sold Desmodus' slaves to Lord Alexei Jovkai , the head of House Jovkai, and that the slaves are in his prison directly south of the food shop ( icon).

At the prison, speak to Maria Gadderanks , who tells you they arrived here a short while ago, and are already well treated. Another prisoner interrupts, telling you Lord Jovkai keeps them well looked after, with a nice bed, good food and clean clothes on the condition that they give him a bit of blood from time to time. The vyrewatch then asks you to leave as Lord Jovkai enters, asking you what you are doing here. You will tell him that the prisoners were promised to Desmodus, but Lord Jovkai tells you he's already paid for them and you'll have to find some different slaves.

Vanstrom Klause then enters the prison, and argues with Lord Jovkai that the Gadderanks belong to Desmodus, and orders Lord Jovkai to return them to him. Vanstrom then realises your voice sounds familiar, and asks that you turn and face him. As he does, Sarius Guile , Vanescula's servant, asks Vanstrom to see Vanescula as she has urgent need of him, stopping him from recognising you and breaking your cover.

Return to Desmodus, who will now let you enter the Arboretum. Upon entering, search the toppled shelves for an old note . Before you can cut the Blisterwood tree , you will need to hydrate the tree by regulating the flow of water. Read the old note to find out how many gallons are needed to hydrate the tree (this is different for each player). The valves are found by the entrance; the northern valve sends seven gallons of water per interval, while the southern valve sends four gallons per interval.

The table below shows the solution. Each column represents the amount of intervals for the northern valve, while each row represents the amount of intervals for the southern valve.

North valve → South valve ↓ | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5

0 | 0 | 7 | 14 | 21 | 28 | 35

1 | 4 | 11 | 18 | 25 | 32 | 39

2 | 8 | 15 | 22 | 29 | 36 | 43

3 | 12 | 19 | 26 | 33 | 40 | 47

4 | 16 | 23 | 30 | 37 | 44 | 51

5 | 20 | 27 | 34 | 41 | 48 | 55

Once you have the correct valve settings, chop eight Blisterwood logs and return to the Icyene Graveyard.

The Final Preparations [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Vanescula, who tells you that she had Sarius keep an eye on you, and that her intervening with Vanstrom saved you. She then tells you that she's given Vertida the required information to craft the weapons.

Head to the Myreque Hideout under Old Man Ral's house and speak to Vertida. He will tell you how to make a ruby sickle. Search the nearby crate for a silver sickle , then combine the silver sickle and ruby (requires a chisel). Enchant the ruby sickle . Craft the Blisterwood Sickle with an enchanted ruby sickle , Blisterwood log , and a knife in your inventory. Use the Blisterwood Sickle on the Ivandis Flail to get a Blisterwood flail , as well as getting back the enchanted emerald sickle that was previously attached.

Search the nearby crate for a silver sickle Attach a ruby to the sickle to create a ruby sickle (b) . Cast Lvl-3 Enchant on the ruby sickle, or use an enchant ruby or topaz tablet on it. Use the Blisterwood logs on the enchanted ruby sickle to create a Blisterwood sickle . Lastly, use the Blisterwood sickle on the Ivandis flail to create the Blisterwood flail .

Return to the Icyene Graveyard. Talk to Veliaf, who will tell you that Safalaan has gone for a walk north of the Icyene Graveyard, and will send you after him. He can be found just north of the graveyard, staring out over the water to the east. Talk to him; both he and you will share your regrets before you both return to the Graveyard.

A Bloody Show [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance with a deathbank . On death , you can pay Veliaf 50,000 to retrieve lost items. Any unsafe death will delete all items left inside the deathbank. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Warning : You will have to battle Vanstrom Klause , who can hit through prayers and has a fairly high Defence level of 180. It is recommended to bring an emergency teleport during your first attempt.

Speak to Vanescula at the Icyene Graveyard once you are combat-ready. Vanescula will teleport the Myreque and take you all to Castle Drakan as her prisoners. Vanstrom will ask her how she managed to capture all the Myreque, with her telling him that she convinced them that she was on their side, then tricked them into coming to Castle Drakan. Before she enters the Castle, Lowerniel Drakan exits, already knowing Vanescula's true intentions of overthrowing him, and demands she tell him why she made that decision.

Enraged, Lowerniel proceeds to kill her vyre servants and instantly subdues his sister. Forced to take action, Polmafi , Kael , Vertida and Radigad attack, but are instantly incinerated by Lowerniel. Lowerniel then orders Vanstrom to kill the rest of you. Safalaan tries to reason with Vanstrom, knowing that he was once his father prior to the vampyrification process. Vanstrom disregards him, and knocks Safalaan out. You must now fight Vanstrom Klause.

Vanescula takes the Myreque to Castle Drakan as her "prisoners". His-Dark-Self the Lord of Vampyrium, Lowerniel Vergidiyad Drakan, appears at last. Lowerniel Drakan is already aware of his sister's betrayal. Lowerniel Drakan subdues his sister. Polmafi, Kael, Vertida and Radigad are immediately incinerated. Vanstrom is left to kill the remaining Myreque members.



Vanstrom Klause is level 459, and is a very difficult fight, far beyond the normal master level difficulty. It is very important to dodge all special attacks. The ring of recoil does not work during this fight, nor does vengeance. The player is also unable to summon thralls .

Should you die during the fight, lost items can be retrieved from Veliaf at the Icyene Graveyard for 50,000 coins (you are not required to have the coins in your inventory). Veliaf can also be used to send you back to the final fight - if going back, activate potions before speaking to Veliaf. If you die at the same time you kill Vanstrom, you do not have to fight him again.

Low Level Players: If you are struggling, especially Ironmen without access to brews, you can set up a Vampyre Slayer task prior to fighting the boss to receive the bonus from the Black mask or Slayer helmet . [1] Additionally, Efaritay's aid provides a 15% accuracy bonus when worn.

Note: Turn off auto-retaliate before the fight!

It is recommended to have some magic defence gear and Protect from Magic active during this phase, as he will primarily use a magic based attack which will also heal him for a portion of the damage dealt. Protect from Magic does not make you immune, but reduces damage taken by 50%. Piety (or, less ideally, Chivalry ) is also highly recommended. Vanstrom can use an attack that lowers your Attack level similar to Shadow Spells, so bring at least one form of Attack-raising potion with you. A piece or two of Karil's armour or black / blessed d'hide is usually good enough. Full Eclipse moon armour may be an even better choice due to it providing both a strength bonus and high magic defence bonus. You should bring a super combat potion or a divine super combat potion and Super attack potion, 2-4 prayer potions, and the highest level food possible or 1-tick combo foods such as karambwans , paired with sharks or better. Bring a few of any quality of throwing knife or dart as a range switch for the Acidic Bloodveld special attack; these will one-shot the bloodveld regardless of quality.

For Ironmen , you may have to make compromises on gear - prioritise Magic defence (over 100) and then Melee Strength Bonus and accuracy to increase DPS. Even with around 80 Attack, the Piety prayer, and super attack potions, you still only have around a 60-65% chance to hit Vanstrom with the flail, so consider bringing a (full) Efaritay's aid ring to increase your accuracy. If you don't have access to super combat potions yet, a good strategy is to pre-pot a Super strength and Super defence potion at the Burgh de Rott bank so you can bring 2 more pieces of food, but take the Super attack potion with you so you can deal with Vanstrom's Attack drain during the fight.

In phase 1, Vanstrom will do 1 of the following 3 special attacks after 9-12 regular attacks. This does not apply at the start of the fight, so the first special attack can occur at any time, after which the counter of 9-12 regular attacks and 1 special attack will start. He will never repeat the same special attack in succession.

" My pets will feast on your corpse! " - Vanstrom will summon an acidic bloodveld that walks towards you. You must kill the bloodveld from a distance or it will explode when it reaches you and hit you for 35-50 damage. The creature will always appear on the far north or south side of the arena (whichever one is furthest away from you) so it is recommended to keep some distance to either side of the room to give yourself more time to deal with them. Bring a range switch to kill them, ideally fast attacking 1-slot equipment such as knives/darts, as you have perfect accuracy against it and only need to hit it once. Putting these on the longrange style is convenient , as the 1 tick faster attack speed of the rapid style isn't worth the two extra tiles you'll have to get closer to it. Runes in a rune pouch (e.g. for Wind Strike , which can also one-shot the bloodvelds) also work and, whilst slower to use, do not require a change of weapon and have a longer range. Do not walk on the acid pool that appears afterward as you will take damage. " Stare into darkness! " - Vanstrom will turn your screen dark and you will be hit upwards of 40+ damage. This can be avoided by almost immediately stepping 1 tile away from him upon seeing the text appear above his head. Relying on reflexes for this special move may be difficult for some, especially at a high ping . If you find it too difficult to react in time, try stepping away after each of his attacks and not facing towards him on his next attack. Another strategy is to move in a circle around Vanstrom while attacking to avoid most damage from this attack. " Blood will be my strength! " - Vanstrom will summon a blood orb that is visually 1x1 tile in size, but is actually 3x3. This orb increases the damage of Vanstrom's magic attacks, even with Protect from Magic . You can lure him to the orb to destroy it and damage Vanstrom by 20+ or so damage, or destroy it yourself and take over 47 damage in the process. Higher levelled players may also simply wait for the orb to disappear.

Vanstrom summons an acidic bloodveld. Darkness emanates from Vanstrom, heavily damaging you. Vanstrom summons a blood orb, strengthening his magicks.

Once Vanstrom reaches 0 health, he will heal himself for 200 hitpoints and stop performing his special attacks. During the second phase, he will begin to summon waves of 10-15 randomly located lightning bolts every 2 seconds or so. These strike for up to 40 damage after a short delay and can be anticipated by watching the shadows on the floor and avoiding tiles where lightning will strike (these can be hard to see if using the 117 HD plugin on the RuneLite client; consider disabling the plugin for this encounter). In addition, his regular attacks will now hit with 100% accuracy and deal between 0-10 damage. These attacks are unaffected by protection prayers so any remaining prayers should be switched to useful non-overhead prayers between phases (such as Piety ). Redemption may also be wise to keep on as a last resort here, as it's easy to focus so much on dodging his lightning attacks that his regular attacks end up whittling you down.

You'll want to constantly be attacking Vanstrom despite the lightning bolts, so it's best to simply step one tile around him clockwise or counter-clockwise each time the tile you're on gets targeted. Do remember to keep an eye on both the tile you're on and the tile you're planning to walk to, or you may dodge one lightning strike only to be hit by another one. Be sure to save some one-tick food (such as karambwans) for this phase as the lightning bolts strike quickly and it's very easy to die in the space of a few seconds should you fail to get out of the way quick enough. If you successfully kill him but die at the same time, the kill will count and you will not have to kill him again.

Shattered [ edit | edit source ]

Upon defeat, Safalaan will beg Vanstrom to stop, and remember who he once was. Vanstrom reveals that he remembers his past life, and knowingly killed Larina. Enraged, Safalaan unleashes his icyene powers, and Vanstrom will seemingly perish in the resulting blast as he explodes. Now in shock, Safalaan is unable to move; Veliaf orders Ivan to teleport him out, but he is too far away. As Vyrewatch Sentinels approach the Myreque, Veliaf makes the tough decision to leave Safalaan behind, and Ivan teleports you, himself and Veliaf out.

In shock at the sheer power of Lord Drakan, abandoning Safalaan and the loss of Polmafi, Kael, Vertida and Radigad, Veliaf declares the Myreque's death and leaves the hideout, leaving you and Ivan behind. Ivan asks you for some time alone, and decides to stay in the hideout.

Enraged at Vanstrom, Safalaan fully unleashes his icyene powers. Unable to reach Safalaan, Ivan teleports you, himself and Veliaf out in the nick of time. Safalaan is abandoned and left behind. Veliaf declares the Myreque dead, leaving you and Ivan.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points Access to Darkmeyer Access to the Daeyalt Essence Mine Access to the Hallowed Sepulchre Ability to shop at stores in Darkmeyer while wearing Vyre noble clothing Ability to use the wall shortcut on the eastern side of Darkmeyer with 63 Agility, after purchasing two long ropes from the Darkmeyer General Store and using them on it. A tome of experience , granting 15,000 experience to any skill. (level 60 or higher). This reward can be utilised six times and may be used for the same skill. The Blisterwood flail Darkmeyer teleport via Drakan's medallion Boat travel between Burgh de Rott , Slepe and the Icyene Graveyard Access to the mutated bloodvelds section of Meiyerditch Laboratories Access to the True Blood Altar (with a Blood talisman ) Access to the Guardian of Blood in the Guardians of the Rift minigame Promotion to the rank of Lieutenant within The Myreque and its associated title

Note: If your inventory is full when the quest is completed, you will not receive the tome of experience. The tome is also lost on death, but can be recovered. Existing reward tomes will also be dropped, but will be recovered from Ivan. Speak to Ivan Strom after the quest to claim the reward.

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Lament for the Hallowed | Unlocked upon arriving at the Icyene Graveyard | 

The Terrible Tunnels | Unlocked upon further exploring the Meiyerditch Laboratories with Safalaan | 

The Terrible Caverns | Unlocked upon further exploring the Meiyerditch Laboratories with Safalaan | 

Darkmeyer | Unlocked upon entering Darkmeyer | 

Arboretum | Unlocked upon entering the Arboretum | 

You Have My Attention | Unlocked upon confronting Lowerniel Drakan | 

Upir Likhyi | Unlocked upon fighting Vanstrom Klause | 

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

30 November 2022 ( update | poll ) | Tome of experience may be used to gain experience 6 times instead of 3.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

 | Quest complete

The song that plays upon completion of the quest.



Within minutes of the quest's release, Old School RuneScape was taken offline and rolled back due to a player save state bug . [2] [3] The title of the quest is a reference to the Biblical concept of ancestral sin, from Exodus 20:5 : "I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, punishing the children for the sin of the parents to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me." This is reflected in the relationship between Safalaan Hallow and his father Ascertes/Vanstrom. Because of the quest ending on a somber note, the standard quest completion music is replaced to fit the mood. Other quests that replace the normal jingles are Mountain Daughter and Monkey Madness II .

Several references to The Everlight , a digsite in RuneScape accessed via the Archaeology skill, can be found in-game. A mud mound can be dug up with a spade to obtain a journal page and some ancient armour , which references the Everlight. While Safalaan is staring out into the ocean before the end of the quest, pieces of rubble can be seen with what looks to be Icyene statues on them. Ivan's dialogue in the graveyard at this point in the quest mentions that a team of archaeologists could potentially find something big if they came here. One of the gravestones in the Icyene Graveyard has the examine text "'Hope is the thing with feathers.' ~ E.D". This is a direct reference to the poem "Hope" is the thing with feathers by American poet Emily Dickinson . The gravestone at the easternmost part of the Icyene Graveyard reads "'Nostalgia is a side effect of dying.' - John the Greenseer". This is a reference to the quote 'Depression is a side effect of dying.' by author John Green. In RuneScape , the fifth instalment of the Myreque questline is The Branches of Darkmeyer , from which Sins of the Father borrows a number of elements, in addition to The Lord of Vampyrium , the sequel to The Branches of Darkmeyer, with some minor differences: Vanescula Drakan first meets the player, Veliaf and Ivan in the Haunted Woods, and proposes her plan alongside the Myreque in the Icyene Graveyard. In The Branches of Darkmeyer, she meets only the player and reveals to you the full details of her plans in the slums of Meiyerditch. In RuneScape , the Icyene Graveyard is not visited until The Lord of Vampyrium (the sixth installment of the series), and is only visited by Safalaan and the player. In addition, the player discovers Safalaan's heritage during their fight with Vanstrom at the end of The Branches of Darkmeyer, rather than at the Graveyard. The Branches of Darkmeyer contains a section in which players must perform various activities within Darkmeyer while disguised as a lowly vampyre to gain status within vampyre society in order to access the Arboretum. This does not occur in Sins of the Father, as the player is already given several tasks to disguise themselves as a vampyre noble. In The Branches of Darkmeyer, the player encounters Maria Gadderanks in a vampyric prison in Darkmeyer and has the opportunity to free her, with the option to tell her or lie to her about Gadderanks 's death. This is unlike Sins of the Father, where the player takes Maria away from her relatively good living conditions under Lord Jovkai and leaves her with a less caring vampyre. Maria's son Ron Gadderanks appears alongside Maria in Sins of the Father, but does not appear in The Branches of Darkmeyer or anywhere else in RuneScape . In RuneScape , the player's identity is compromised by Ranis, whereas in the Sins of the Father, the player is nearly compromised by Vanstrom. In both, they are saved by Vanescula's intervention, although Vanescula directly intervenes in the former and indirectly does so in the latter. Vanescula mentions that there's no need to discard the Ivandis flail and instead it can simply be upgraded with Blisterwood. This is a reference to the fact that in The Branches of Darkmeyer, the player discards the flail entirely for Blisterwood weapons, such as the Blisterwood polearm, staff and stakes. During Sins of the Father, the Myreque are taken to Castle Drakan as "prisoners" of Vanescula Drakan and most are killed instantly after Lowerniel Drakan appears and subdues his sister. In comparison, during The Lord of Vampyrium, the Myreque (disguised as vyre nobles), with the help of Vanescula Drakan, ambush Lowerniel Drakan on the rooftop of Castle Drakan upon his return from Vampyrium , where the attack fails and he slowly kills off the remainder of the Myreque over the course of the quest, and is eventually killed by the player at the end. In Branches of Darkmeyer, Vanescula states that she is powerful enough to kill Lowerniel herself, and is not doing so because she doesn't want to cause political instability within Vampyre society. In Sins of the Father, Lowerniel effortlessly subdues her and makes it very clear that he is much more powerful than her. At the end of Sins of the Father, Ivan is forced to abandon Safalaan as he becomes surrounded by vyrewatch sentinels, leaving his fate uncertain. In The Lord of Vampyrium, Vanescula "kills" Safalaan to take his blood, which is of Icyenic origin, to sanctify herself against the River Salve , and plans to use haemalchemy to transfer this blood to the rest of the vampyres; Safalaan is later revealed to be alive in the next quest in the series, River of Blood . The Login screen for the release of Sins of the Father. After Sins of the Father, Ivan's examine text changes to "The last remaining member of the Myreque". This isn't technically true since the player is also a member of the Myreque.

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Sins of the Father

NPCs | Hameln the Jester Hanchen the Hound Carl Drezel Werewolf Prisoner Lord Crombwick Maria Gadderanks Ron Gadderanks Prisoner (Darkmeyer) Sarius Guile Acidic Bloodveld Seagull The Myreque Veliaf Hurtz Ivan Strom Safalaan Hallow Polmafi Ferdygris Vertida Sefalatis Radigad Ponfit Kael Forshaw Vampyres Kroy Vanstrom Klause ( Blood Orb ) Damien Leucurte Vanescula Drakan Desmodus Lasiurus Mordan Nikazsi Lord Alexei Jovkai Lowerniel Drakan |  | Hameln the Jester Hanchen the Hound Carl Drezel Werewolf Prisoner Lord Crombwick Maria Gadderanks Ron Gadderanks Prisoner (Darkmeyer) Sarius Guile Acidic Bloodveld Seagull | The Myreque | Veliaf Hurtz Ivan Strom Safalaan Hallow Polmafi Ferdygris Vertida Sefalatis Radigad Ponfit Kael Forshaw | Vampyres | Kroy Vanstrom Klause ( Blood Orb ) Damien Leucurte Vanescula Drakan Desmodus Lasiurus Mordan Nikazsi Lord Alexei Jovkai Lowerniel Drakan

 | Hameln the Jester Hanchen the Hound Carl Drezel Werewolf Prisoner Lord Crombwick Maria Gadderanks Ron Gadderanks Prisoner (Darkmeyer) Sarius Guile Acidic Bloodveld Seagull

The Myreque | Veliaf Hurtz Ivan Strom Safalaan Hallow Polmafi Ferdygris Vertida Sefalatis Radigad Ponfit Kael Forshaw

Vampyres | Kroy Vanstrom Klause ( Blood Orb ) Damien Leucurte Vanescula Drakan Desmodus Lasiurus Mordan Nikazsi Lord Alexei Jovkai Lowerniel Drakan

Items | Haemalchemy volume 2 Tatty note Old note A taste of hope Blisterwood logs Unscented vyre noble disguise Top Legs Shoes Scented vyre noble disguise Top Legs Shoes Flail components Ivandis flail Ruby sickle (b) Enchanted ruby sickle (b) Blisterwood sickle Blisterwood flail |  | Haemalchemy volume 2 Tatty note Old note A taste of hope Blisterwood logs | Unscented vyre noble disguise | Top Legs Shoes | Scented vyre noble disguise | Top Legs Shoes | Flail components | Ivandis flail Ruby sickle (b) Enchanted ruby sickle (b) Blisterwood sickle Blisterwood flail

 | Haemalchemy volume 2 Tatty note Old note A taste of hope Blisterwood logs

Unscented vyre noble disguise | Top Legs Shoes

Scented vyre noble disguise | Top Legs Shoes

Flail components | Ivandis flail Ruby sickle (b) Enchanted ruby sickle (b) Blisterwood sickle Blisterwood flail

Rewards | Tome of experience

Locations | Slepe Sisterhood Sanctuary Paterdomus Temple Haunted Woods Mort Myre Swamp Burgh de Rott Meiyerditch Myreque Hideout Icyene Graveyard Meiyerditch Laboratories Crombwick Manor Darkmeyer Arboretum Castle Drakan

Music | Lament for the Hallowed The Terrible Caverns The Terrible Tunnels Darkmeyer Arboretum You Have My Attention Upir Likhyi

Related | Quick guide ( speedrunning ) Transcript Vampyric name