 | This miniquest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Skippy and the Mogres





Released | 24 October 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Developer(s) | Anthony W



Skippy and the Mogres is a miniquest in which players are taught how to fight mogres .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Skippy located south-east of the town of Rimmington . Show on map

Official difficulty | Novice

Official length | Very Short

Description | Help a drunken man haunted by the curse of the Mogres.

Requirements | 20 Cooking ( boostable ) ( not required to start )

Items required | Bucket of water Nettle tea Nettle-water Bowl of Water Nettles (more than one with low Cooking level, as it can fail due to over boiling) Gloves to pick the nettles ( leather gloves are obtainable during the quest) Hangover cure or the ingredients to make one: Chocolate dust Chocolate bar Knife or pestle and mortar Bucket of milk Snape grass

Recommended | 32 Slayer ( boostable ) and fishing explosives to slay mogres after the miniquest

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ - location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

South-east of Rimmington , near the shores, wanders a drunken man named Skippy . He appears to be shouting at the sea, and rambles on mindlessly when you attempt to talk with him. Since any man usually makes more sense sober, you will have to pour a bucket of water over his head; a well-known cure to drunkenness.

Nettle tea [ edit | edit source ]

Skippy will sober up, but becomes annoyed by the fact he is now wet. He will ask for a nettle tea to warm himself up. You'll need to put nettles in a bowl of water to create nettle-water , then boil it on a range or fire to obtain nettle tea . Nettles can be found nearby, south of the Draynor Village jail , or in Edgeville , near the yew trees, and have to be gathered with gloves . Conveniently, a pair of leather gloves spawn next to the nettles in Edgeville. You might overboil the water however, therefore it is recommended to pick multiple nettles. You can barge into the house next to Skippy to use the range there.

Head back and use the nettle tea on Skippy. He will now be sober enough to realise that he has a hangover and requires a hangover cure . This cure can be made by grinding chocolate into chocolate dust with a knife or pestle and mortar , adding the chocolate dust to a bucket of milk , and then using snape grass on the chocolatey milk . Snape grass can be found nearby in the Hobgoblin peninsula , west of the Crafting Guild . A dairy cow is also present near the guild. Chocolate and a knife can be bought in Port Sarim .

Return to Skippy and use the cure on him. This will cure him. He will then explain that he had been attacked by mogres , and shows you a trick to gently chase them out of the water with fishing explosives .

Congratulations! You've completed this miniquest!

Reward [ edit | edit source ]

The ability to slay mogres at 32 Slayer .

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Skippy and the Mogres is required for the following:

Rag and Bone Man II Medium Falador Diary

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Skippy 's phrase "The horror! The horror!" that he sometimes shouts while throwing things into the water is a reference to the famous line in Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad. When throwing bottles in the water, Skippy will sometimes say ''They're coming out of the walls!'', this is a reference to the movie Aliens. If you already have ingredients for the hangover cure, you will get slightly different dialogue. According to his dialogue, Skippy had been drinking "Captain Braindeath's Extra Strength Rum/Drain Cleaner. Now 50% more debilitating" for a week. In addition to known ingredients , it also contains sheep tranquilizers.

v • t • e Skippy and the Mogres

NPCs | Skippy Mogre

Items | Hangover cure Fishing explosive

Locations | Mudskipper Point

Music | Mudskipper Melody

Related | Ominous Fishing Spot

v • t • e Miniquests

 | Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl Architectural Alliance (removed) Barbarian Training Bear Your Soul Curse of the Empty Lord Daddy's Home The Enchanted Key Enter the Abyss Family Pest The Frozen Door The General's Shadow His Faithful Servants Hopespear's Will In Search of Knowledge Into the Tombs Lair of Tarn Razorlor Mage Arena I Mage Arena II Skippy and the Mogres

Unofficial miniquests | Tutorial Island Natural history quiz Restoring the Sacred Bone Burner Knight Waves Training Grounds Rogue Trader Obtaining the ancient key