 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Spirits of the Elid (#94)





Released | 5 December 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Paul G



Spirits of the Elid is a quest in which players must assist the villagers of Nardah in restoring water to their town, which has all but disappeared. The villagers believe themselves to be the victim of a curse, but the truth must be discovered of what happened to the village's water sources.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Awusah , Mayor of Nardah . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | The people in the desert village of Nardah have a problem. Their town well has dried up and any water they try to bring back to the town from the river mysteriously disappears before they can get it back.
The villagers suspect they have been cursed in some way. Can you unravel what is going on and save the village?

Requirements | 33 Magic ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 37 Ranged ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 37 Mining ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 37 Thieving ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) Ability to defeat three level 75 golems

Items required | Runes for Telekinetic Grab (One law and one air rune) Needle (Note: a Costume needle will not work) 1-2 thread Crush weapon Stab weapon Slash weapon Light source Knife Rope Any Pickaxe that you have the Mining level to use (a Bronze Pickaxe can be obtained during the quest) Bow and arrows (can be obtained during the quest); a crystal bow will also work

Recommended | 40 Combat level Desert clothing to protect you from the desert heat A few waterskins Nardah teleports Coins (if using Magic carpet transportation) Necklace of Passage to Eagle's Eyrie or a Shantay pass to go through the gate at the Shantay Pass A Spear , Hasta , or Bladed Staff to save inventory space since they can use all three melee attack types Armour and some food

Enemies to defeat | Black golem (level 75) Grey golem (level 75) White golem (level 75)

League notes | Desert ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

To start this quest, head to Nardah and speak to Awusah the Mayor . He will tell you that there is a curse on the town, and there is no more water available to the people anymore.

Go to the house just north of the mayor's house and speak to Ghaslor the Elder . He will give you a ballad . Do not bank/drop the ballad as it is needed to complete the quest.

Next, go west and speak to Shiratti the Custodian . After speaking to Shiratti, search the cupboards west in the building and use your needle and thread on the torn robes (remember to get both the top and bottom). You will turn them into robes of elidinis . Use Telekinetic Grab to steal the ancestral key from the enclosed area.

The Waterfall [ edit | edit source ]

The next location is the waterfall at the source of the River Elid , on the east bank. To get there, either:

Leave Nardah and walk north-west until you come to the banks of the River Elid, and then follow them to the north until you come to a waterfall at the source of the river. On the way, you'll pass respawn points for a bronze pickaxe , a shortbow , and some bronze arrows . Take these if you don't already have them in your inventory. You will also pass by a Desert Phoenix ; pluck a Phoenix feather for use in The Golem and for a medium task in the Desert Diary . Alternatively, return to Shantay Pass (via magic carpets or amulet of glory / ring of dueling teleport to Al Kharid ) and retrieve a bow and some arrows from the bank if you don't have in your inventory. You also will pass an arrow spawn on your way through the desert. Once back in the desert, head south-east to a bridge and cross the River Elid—then, follow the river north to the dungeon entrance. Alternatively, you can use a necklace of passage to teleport to Eagle's Eyrie and run south-west for a short while.

When you reach the dungeon entrance, use your rope on the root above the waterfall to enter.

While wearing the Robes of Elidinis top and bottom, open the door with the ancestral key in your inventory. If you are not wearing the robes, or do not have the ballad, your character will ask what they could possibly have forgotten.

The Golems [ edit | edit source ]

Once you're inside, ignore the door to the north; head east a short ways to where you'll see three doors. Upon attempting to open each door, you'll be attacked by one of three coloured level-75 golems, which can only be defeated by one type of attack style ( Crush / Slash / Stab ). A Spear or Hasta can use all of these attack styles in one slot, and a pickaxe (if decent material) can use Stab / Crush. It is also possible to fight the black golem (Crush) unarmed, but this is only recommended if your stats are high (70+) due to its high Defence level. After defeating them, the door they protected will open. Enter the room and solve the puzzle to clear the water channel:

If you attempt to open the door before the golem has finished its death animation, another golem will spawn.

The black golem protecting the north-east room is vulnerable to crushing attacks . Once inside, you'll see a target on the other side of the water channel. Equip your bow and arrow and shoot it. Once you've hit it, the channel will be cleared. If you don't do damage and the water doesn't start flowing, you didn't clear it. The grey golem protecting the east room is vulnerable to slashing attacks . Once it's dead, clear the water channel with your pickaxe. The white golem in the south room is vulnerable to stabbing attacks . Kill it, then clear the water channel behind the door with Thieving .

After you clear all three channels, go north through the remaining door, walk around the lake, and talk to the spirits, Nirrie , Tirrie and Hallak . They'll tell you to recover the sacred Statue of Elidinis and return it to the shrine in Nardah to break the curse.

The Crevice [ edit | edit source ]

Go to Nardah and talk to the mayor again. He will tell you that they threw the statue down a crevice west of town. While you're here, take the mayor's shoes from beside the door and use your knife on them to remove their soles . (The mayor won't let you if you're too close to him.)

Go west from the general store in Nardah until you come to the crevice and use a rope on it. You need a light source , or else you'll be eaten alive by tiny bugs. Talk to the genie (the evil brother of the random event ). He will tell you to get the mayor's sole in exchange for the statue. Give the soles to him to get the statue back.

Finally, take the statue to the shrine back in town (the building you stole the key in) and place it on the statuette plinth.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 8,000 Prayer experience 1,000 Thieving experience 1,000 Magic experience Access to Nardah 's fountain for water and the shrine : Praying at the statuette will fill Hitpoints , temporarily boost it, cure poison and venom, restore prayer points , run energy , and special attack energy . Robe of elidinis

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Spirits of the Elid is required for the following:

Medium Desert Diary - Visit the Genie. Medium Desert Diary - Pray at the Statuette.

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Awusah the Mayor will tell the player that the priest of Saradomin was convinced that by praying, he could become impervious to arrows. If the player has at least 40 Prayer, the player may respond that it is easy and they can do it as well, referring to the Protect from Missiles prayer. If the player tries to take the lamp from the table in the genie's underground chamber, the genie will stop the player saying "Hey get your hands off my house." If the player tries to take the genie's lamp using the Telekinetic Grab spell, the genie will shout at the player "Hey no casting spells on my house!" Examining the Genie prompts the text "Phenomenal cosmic powers, itty-bitty living space". This is a reference to a line from Disney's animated film Aladdin . The snakes in the first part of the crevice may be a reference to the snakes in the cave that Indiana Jones and Marion are thrown in the movie, Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark.

v • t • e Spirits of the Elid

NPCs | Awusah Ghaslor Genie Garai Shiratti Jareesh Spirits Nirrie Tirrie Hallak Golems White Grey Black |  | Awusah Ghaslor Genie Garai Shiratti Jareesh | Spirits | Nirrie Tirrie Hallak | Golems | White Grey Black

 | Awusah Ghaslor Genie Garai Shiratti Jareesh

Spirits | Nirrie Tirrie Hallak

Golems | White Grey Black

Items | Ballad Ancestral key Shoes Sole Statuette Lamp (unobtainable) Torn robes Top Bottom Robes of Elidinis Top Bottom |  | Ballad Ancestral key Shoes Sole Statuette Lamp (unobtainable) | Torn robes | Top Bottom | Robes of Elidinis | Top Bottom

 | Ballad Ancestral key Shoes Sole Statuette Lamp (unobtainable)

Torn robes | Top Bottom

Robes of Elidinis | Top Bottom

Music | Spirits of the Elid The Genie

Related | Elidinis Statuette Quick guide Transcript Water Ravine Dungeon