 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Tai Bwo Wannai Trio (#58)





Released | 14 September 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Rahul V



Tai Bwo Wannai Trio is a quest that follows where Jungle Potion left off. The chief of Tai Bwo Wannai requests your help in reuniting his sons, requiring you to seek each of the three out and help them in a specific task. One requires aid in defeating the Shaikahan , another seeks the knowledge to catch Karambwan , and the third seeks some unusual foodstuffs before he'll return to the village. Completing their individual tasks requires coordinating between the sons. Upon completing said tasks, the sons return to Tai Bwo Wannai.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Timfraku in his house in Tai Bwo Wannai . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | In Jungle Potion, the Shaman Trufitus communed with the gods to determine the fate of his people. Now, Timfraku, the Chief of Tai Bwo Wannai, wishes to see his people and family return to the abandoned village. Help a depressed fisherman, encourage a raging hunter and satiate an eccentric priest in this extreme test of aptitude and patience!

Requirements | 15 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 30 Cooking ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) 5 Fishing ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) [1] Completion of the following quests: Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual

Items required | Knife or bladed weapon, such as a Sword Sliced banana (can be obtained during the quest) Small fishing net Pestle and mortar (can be obtained during the quest for 6 gp) 2 Logs to quickly make Poison karambwan at fishing site and to cook Pasty jogre bones later in the quest Iron spear or better, which will be consumed during the quest. The following do not work: Black spear , Zamorakian spear , Leaf-bladed spear , Gilded spear and bone spear . Agility potion(4) Ranged equipment , Magic equipment , or a halberd to kill a monkey for a monkey corpse (melee does 0 damage to monkeys) Tinderbox (If you wish to avoid running back to the range in Brimhaven) Jogre bones (can be obtained during the quest) Seaweed (can be obtained during the quest) Karamjan rum or 30 coins to purchase (if obtaining the rum before starting, add the sliced banana or the rum will disappear when you leave the island)

Recommended | 30 Firemaking ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) to make burnt jogre bones on a fire instead of at a furnace Extra Raw karambwan in case you burn the one given to you by Tiadeche Access to the Gnome Glider system (requires partial completion of The Grand Tree quest) Rimmington or Ardougne teleport , as well as coins if you are chartering a ship to Brimhaven Stamina potions Food Antidote++ or other Antipoisons Amulet of glory Brimhaven teleport Weight-reducing clothing Lunar / Dramen staff for fairy rings 42 Ranged , 53 Agility , 21 Strength , a mith grapple , and crossbow for the Strong Tree shortcut

Enemies to defeat | Monkey (level 3)

Ironman concerns | 34 Herblore ( boostable ) to create the agility potion 65 Fishing ( boostable ) to catch raw karambwan (necessary if you burn the one given to you) The ability to defeat a level 53 enemy (can be safespotted and the bones telegrabbed at the Ardougne Zoo ) Obtaining an iron spear or better. A steel spear spawns in the Ancient Prison in Neypotzli at the western wall. Alternatively, it may be bought from the Mount Karuulm Weapon Shop , Fortis Blacksmith in Varlamore , or dropped by enemies such as Moss Giants , Jogres , Tribesmen , and Hobgoblins .

League notes | Karamja ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Introduction (visiting Timfraku) [ edit | edit source ]

Teleport to the Musa Point banana plantation with your amulet of glory and pick a banana if you do not already have one. Then, go south to the Karamja Spirits Bar and purchase Karamja Rum . Slice the banana using your knife and add the sliced banana to your rum, making sure not to accidentally eat the sliced banana. Make sure you combine the sliced banana with the rum before you leave the island, or the rum will break. The rum combined with sliced banana will be necessary in a later part of the quest.

After obtaining the Karamjan rum, travel south to Tai Bwo Wannai (fairy ring C K R ) and talk with Timfraku upstairs in the north-west house with a quest icon above it. Talk with him, and say that Trufitus sent you. Talk to him again, and when he thanks you for what you have done so far, pick the option "So far??" and he will ask you to gather his sons, Tamayu , Tiadeche , and Tinsay , in the village. Warning : The Tribesmen in and around Tai Bwo Wannai are aggressive to players level 64 and under and deal very high poison damage, easily killing unprepared low-level players. The general store north of Tai Bwo Wannai sells antipoisons if you forgot to bring some.

Tamayu [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: An iron spear or better ( Black spear , Bone spear , and Leaf-bladed spear do not work), a small fishing net , a pestle and mortar or 6 gold, and an Agility potion(4) .

Optional: Logs (or an axe to chop them), a tinderbox , and a raw karambwan (one is obtainable later in the quest), Brimhaven Teleport .

You can find Tamayu south-east of Tai Bwo Wannai Village at the mine. He will return to Tai Bwo Wannai only once he has killed The Shaikahan . Talk to him twice; ask him when he will succeed and offer to join him on his next hunt. During a cutscene Tamayu will fail to defeat The Shaikahan. He will claim that he is overpowered by its strength, regenerating health, and agility.

Do not give your spear or Agility potion to Tamayu yet. You must poison the spear with karambwan paste, obtained later in the quest, before giving it to Tamayu. Go to the Holy Lake south-west of Tamayu and net-fish for at least 22 raw karambwanji . (It's recommended to have a few spares or keep the net for later if your Cooking level is low.) (They are different from Karambwan and stack like other forms of bait.) If you still need logs, there are some trees that can be cut to the south-west of this pond near the Hunter icon on the minimap.

Now travel north. If you don't have a Pestle and mortar , you can buy one at Jiminua's Jungle Store (general store icon) north-west of the village. Then continue and talk to Lubufu (near the POH portal, Brimhaven Teleport is useful here) by the fishing icon on the south-eastern shore of Brimhaven .

Select to "Talk about him..." and ask him how old he is. Then offer to help him collect bait, and then say that he sounds like he could do with the help. He will then tell you to catch 20 karambwanji. Give him the karambwanji and ask him what he uses to catch karambwan, followed by what he does with them, and he will ask you if you want to become his apprentice (you will need to select all options, not just the two listed here). He will then give you a karambwan vessel and the information that it must be filled with karambwanji as bait. You can now catch raw karambwan with 65 fishing, you will also receive 1500 Fishing experience . If your character goes idle after a couple seconds of fishing, you need to fish at the fishing spots next to Tiadecehe in the north east of Karamja. It is recommended you collect more vessels at this stage, one for Tiadeche , one for Tinsay and one for yourself. You can obtain more by dropping the one in your inventory and then asking Lubufu for another.

Once you have obtained as many as you wish use a raw karambwanji on one of these vessels.

See below on how to complete the Tamayu part of this quest.

Tiadeche [ edit | edit source ]

Next, go to the north-east corner of the Karamja jungle (fairy ring D K P ) to seek out Tiadeche . Once found, talk to him. He says he will go back to Tai Bwo Wannai after you teach him how to catch Karambwan . Give him your full Karambwan vessel (use your karambwanji on the vessel first, then use the full vessel on Tiadeche) and he will subsequently give you a Raw karambwan . He will also ask you to visit his brother Tinsay for another matter.

While you are here you can grab the nearby Seaweed that spawns on the beach as you will need it later on.

Once you have the raw karambwan, cook it to obtain a poison karambwan . If you are an Ironman and burn the Karambwan you will need 65 Fishing in order to catch another. Consider using the Hosidius Kitchen or some other Cooking boosts to minimise the risk of burning it. Worth noting, catching a raw karambwan is a Karamja medium diary achievement.

Use the pestle and mortar on the Poison karambwan to produce Karambwan paste . Then, use the paste on the spear to create a karambwan poisoned spear. If you eat the Poison karambwan you will take up to 5 damage, so right-click on it and select the "use" option, or simply use the pestle and mortar to avoid doing so.

Now, head back to Tamayu by running south. If you didn't purchase the Jogre bones , kill a Jogre on the way and pick up the bones. If you don't have a spear, you can continue killing jogres until they drop an iron spear . Cross the agility shortcut, then run west to the mine.

Once you have returned to Tamayu, use the newly poisoned spear and your Agility potion(4) (it needs to have 4 doses) on him (being careful not to drink the potion). You can now join Tamayu on his hunt and a short cutscene will play showing Tamayu being successful on his hunt. Once he has slain The Shaikahan he will promise to return to the village once you've talked with his brothers and father.

To save some time helping Tinsay , kill a nearby monkey (with Ranged or Magic ) and use its corpse on Tamayu . He will ask you if you'd like him to skin it, returning the monkey bones and skin (you only need to save the skin).

Tinsay [ edit | edit source ]

Now head to Cairn Isle in order to talk to Tinsay . He is located up the rockslide and across the bridge. He'll tell you that he's trying to repair the Tribal Statue in the village. He has lost his sanity recently due to some sort of accident with a Jogre . He asks for three special local items.

The first thing he'll ask you to get him is a bottle of banana-flavoured rum. Head to Musa Point , and buy a bottle of Karamjan rum from the liquor store there. Then, go into the general store , take the banana and knife off the table and use the knife with the banana to slice it. Add these slices to the rum and give it to Tinsay (be careful not to eat the slices).

Do not use a whole banana on the rum without slicing it. It will create a joke item, Karamjan rum (banana) . If done so you will need to get another bottle of Karamjan rum to try again.

Next Tinsay wants you to bring him a Seaweed sandwich . If you do not already have the items cross back over the bridge to collect Seaweed from the beach and equip your Ranged or Magic gear in order to kill a Monkey . Collect the Monkey corpse and take it back to Tamayu to be skinned and be given Monkey skin .

Once you have both items use them on each other to create a Seaweed sandwich to give to Tinsay .

Like before, do not use a monkey corpse on the seaweed before taking the monkey to Tamayu for skinning. This will create another joke item, Stuffed monkey , and you will need to give the stuffed monkey to Tamayu to revert it back to its base components.

After you make the seaweed sandwich, use one of the karambwan vessels on Tinsay to receive the Crafting manual for Tiadeche . He won't accept it until you make the sandwich.

You now need to get some burnt jogre bones marinated in karambwanji sauce. Be careful not to bury the bones! The bones can be accidentally buried at any step in this process.

Use the jogre bones on a tinderbox to burn them. It will take a couple of seconds for them to finish burning, after which you can pick them up. If your Firemaking level is below level 30, you will not be able to burn the jogre bones with a tinderbox. Instead, you will have to burn them in a furnace . Alternatively, cast Superheat Item on the jogre bones. Grind a raw karambwanji with your pestle and mortar . Use the paste on the burnt bones to get pasty jogre bones . Cook the pasty jogre bones on a range or fire to marinate them, and give the marinated j' bones to Tinsay. Note: These bones should be green in colour. If you cooked the bones wrong, they will be white instead.

Like before, do not use the karambwanji paste on the jogre bones before burning the jogre bones. This will create another joke item, useless marinated j' bones (which will be white, not green). You will have to get new jogre bones and karambwanji paste.

Now that you've helped Tinsay, he will regain his sanity and agree to return to Tai Bwo Wannai. Finally, return the Crafting manual (that was obtained by giving the Karambwan vessel to Tinsay) to Tiadeche, and they will both return to Tai Bwo Wannai.

Wrapping up [ edit | edit source ]

After you're done with all three brothers, talk to Timfraku up the ladder in the north-west house of Tai Bwo Wannai again to complete the quest. Then, talk to each of the three brothers in their houses along the southern fence of the village for additional experience rewards.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 2,000 Coins (awarded by Timfraku immediately upon quest completion) 5,000 Cooking experience (claimed upon speaking to Tinsay after quest completion) 5,000 Fishing experience (claimed upon speaking to Tiadeche after quest completion) 2,500 Attack experience, 2,500 Strength experience, and a karambwan-poisoned rune spear (claimed upon speaking to Tamayu after quest completion) Access to Tamayu's Spear Stall (sells cleaning cloths ) Access to Tiadeche's Karambwan Stall (sells raw karambwans and karambwan vessels ) The ability to pray at the newly repaired tribal statue (works like an altar ) by talking to Tinsay and Tiadeche in the village after the quest The ability to catch and cook karambwans by talking to Tinsay in the village after the quest The ability to fight the Shaikahan (level 83 - you need a kp spear to hit it) The ability to use Tai bwo wannai teleport scrolls The ability to take part in the Smithing section of the Barbarian Training miniquest .

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

31 March 2016 ( update ) | The player will now always receive the rune spear(kp) reward from the quest. Previously it was possible to click out of the dialogue and not receive this reward.

v • t • e Tai Bwo Wannai Trio

NPCs | Timfraku Tamayu Tiadeche Tinsay Lubufu Enemies The Shaikahan |  | Timfraku Tamayu Tiadeche Tinsay Lubufu | Enemies | The Shaikahan

 | Timfraku Tamayu Tiadeche Tinsay Lubufu

Enemies | The Shaikahan

Items | Karamjan rum Banana Sliced banana Karamjan rum (sliced banana) Karamjan rum (banana) Monkey corpse Monkey skin Stuffed monkey Seaweed sandwich Crafting manual Karambwanji Raw Cooked Raw paste Cooked paste Karambwan Vessel Baited vessel Raw Poison Cooked Burnt Raw paste Poison paste Cooked paste Jogre bones Regular Burnt Burnt pasty Normal pasty Burnt cooked pasty Normal cooked pasty Burnt marinated Normal marinated Karambwan poisoned spears Bronze Iron Steel Black Mithril Adamant Rune Dragon Karambwan poisoned hastae Bronze Iron Steel Mithril Adamant Rune Dragon Unobtainable Left-handed banana |  | Karamjan rum Banana Sliced banana Karamjan rum (sliced banana) Karamjan rum (banana) Monkey corpse Monkey skin Stuffed monkey Seaweed sandwich Crafting manual | Karambwanji | Raw Cooked Raw paste Cooked paste | Karambwan | Vessel Baited vessel Raw Poison Cooked Burnt Raw paste Poison paste Cooked paste | Jogre bones | Regular Burnt Burnt pasty Normal pasty Burnt cooked pasty Normal cooked pasty Burnt marinated Normal marinated | Karambwan poisoned spears | Bronze Iron Steel Black Mithril Adamant Rune Dragon | Karambwan poisoned hastae | Bronze Iron Steel Mithril Adamant Rune Dragon | Unobtainable | Left-handed banana

 | Karamjan rum Banana Sliced banana Karamjan rum (sliced banana) Karamjan rum (banana) Monkey corpse Monkey skin Stuffed monkey Seaweed sandwich Crafting manual

Karambwanji | Raw Cooked Raw paste Cooked paste

Karambwan | Vessel Baited vessel Raw Poison Cooked Burnt Raw paste Poison paste Cooked paste

Jogre bones | Regular Burnt Burnt pasty Normal pasty Burnt cooked pasty Normal cooked pasty Burnt marinated Normal marinated

Karambwan poisoned spears | Bronze Iron Steel Black Mithril Adamant Rune Dragon

Karambwan poisoned hastae | Bronze Iron Steel Mithril Adamant Rune Dragon

Unobtainable | Left-handed banana

Locations | Tai Bwo Wannai

Related | Quick guide Burning bones