 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Tears of Guthix (#79)





Released | 4 May 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | John A



Tears of Guthix is a quest where you must help Juna , a follower of Guthix , restore a cavern in the Lumbridge Swamp Caves . Within the dungeon the walls flow with tears, a relic of Guthix's horror at the destruction during the God Wars . Completion of the quest grants access to the eponymous minigame , where it rewards experience in the player's lowest skill each time it is played.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Juna , deep inside the Lumbridge Swamp Caves . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Very Short

Description | Deep in the caves in the Lumbridge Swamp is an enchanted place where the tears shed by Guthix when it saw the destruction Saradomin and Zamorak had caused with their wars flow from the very walls. These tears are said to have magical properties to help players gain deeper understanding of the world. However, the cave is guarded by a loyal serpent named Juna who blocks passage from everyone. However, she has grown bored from three thousand years of sitting in the dark cave and wishes to hear stories of life above. Maybe you could come to some sort of arrangement...?

Requirements | 43 Quest points ( required to start ) 49 Firemaking ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 20 Crafting ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) [1] 20 Mining ( boostable ) ( not required to start )

Items required | Lit sapphire lantern (use a cut sapphire on a bullseye lantern or on a bullseye lantern (unf) ), make sure to use a tinderbox on it as Juna is busy Swamp tar to fill an empty sapphire lantern using the chemist in Rimmington or the lamp still in Dorgesh-Kaan Chisel Tinderbox Pickaxe Rope (if you have not yet entered the Lumbridge Swamp Caves )

Recommended | Spiny helmet / Slayer helmet to prevent damage from wall beasts , if you have not progressed far enough through The Lost Tribe to access the caves from the Lumbridge Castle cellar.

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | A bullseye lantern (to create the required sapphire lantern ), obtainable through one of the following: Purchase from Miltog for 600 gp (after Death to the Dorgeshuun ) 49 Smithing ( boostable ) to create a bullseye lantern (unf) 35 Crafting To complete Haunted Mine to kill Skeleton in Tarn's Lair 36 Thieving ( boostable ) for pickpocketing cave goblins (after Death to the Dorgeshuun ) for a bullseye lantern. 35 Slayer ( boostable ) to kill wall beasts for a bullseye lantern (unf) Item spawn in Darkmeyer (after Sins of the Father )

League notes | Unlocking Misthalin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

If you have completed The Lost Tribe quest, you may skip to Option B! If not, use Option A. Partial completion is possible, you must only reach the point at which it is possible to obtain the Brooch .

To start, you need to find Juna deep inside the caves under the Lumbridge Swamp . A bullseye lantern is recommended to get deep enough safely, as a bullseye lantern will not be extinguished, will not explode from swamp gas, and cannot break. You don't have to make it yourself, as a player with high enough Smithing and Crafting can put one together for you, but you must be able to light it yourself. Before you enter the caves, use a cut sapphire on the bullseye lantern to get a sapphire lantern . If you do not do this now you will not be able to swap in the caves, as you cannot extinguish your lantern in the cave in order to replace the lens. This sapphire lantern will also light the caves. If you go to Juna's cave through the normal route, as you pass by holes in the wall , stop one square away from them; then, run past them. You will not be grabbed by the wall beasts if you use this method.

You can enter the cave from the swamp (first time entry requires a rope ), travelling south, then hugging the south wall all the way until there's a place where you can jump on a rock to cross a small, subterranean river. On the way, you will pass by a room where swamp gas will blow up any open flames you are carrying on you if you take too long to go past, each one hitting 10-15 damage. Watch for a grey 'X' marked on the northern side of a wall, this is the room. South of the frogs is a cave entrance. From there, head east, climb down the slope, and continue east until you see Juna sitting in front of the cave. Talk to her to begin the quest.

Skip to the Juna paragraph to continue.

As mentioned above, it's a good idea to have a lit sapphire bullseye lantern made. Since you have at least started The Lost Tribe quest, you won't need the spiny helmet, you can just go to the basement of Lumbridge Castle , climb through the hole in the wall, head south, and then squeeze through the hole to get into the cave (right-click use on your pickaxe on the second hole to clear the pathway). From there, head straight south to the frogs and then jump across the stepping stone at the southern river, and enter another tunnel at the south. From there, head east, climb down the rocky slope, and continue east until you see Juna sitting in front of the cave. If you are carrying a weapon be sure to have it unequipped when you talk to Juna to be able to tell her a story. Talk to her to begin the quest.

Juna [ edit | edit source ]

When you talk to Juna , she will tell you some stories about the Tears and tell you of how very bored she has become. Also you need to tell a story for her to be able to continue the quest. She's willing to let you into the cave for a little while to gather some of the miraculous Tears of Guthix, but first, she has a task for you. To collect the tears, you will need a stone bowl . Getting there will be a bit tricky, though, since you can't quite climb up to where the rocks you need are.

The Light Creatures [ edit | edit source ]

Head north-west of Juna up the path toward the direction you came from, and climb the rocks. In the big black middle area are a group of floating orbs of light called light creatures . Use your lit sapphire lantern on one of them, the creature will pick you up and give you a ride to the south side where the magical rocks are.

The Bowl [ edit | edit source ]

Use your pickaxe to get a magic stone , and then use your chisel to craft it into a bowl . One will be enough. If the player did not tell Juna a story, then the player will receive a message "You don't know what to make." and will be unable to make a Stone bowl. Now, head east to climb back down and then go back to Juna. Give the bowl to her, and your quest is complete.

Congratulations, quest complete!

You can now reacquire the sapphire used when making your sapphire lantern by using the lantern with your lantern lens.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,000 Crafting experience Ability to play the Tears of Guthix minigame once a week

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Tears of Guthix is required for the following:

While Guthix Sleeps Hard Lumbridge & Draynor Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Tears of Guthix

NPCs | Juna Light creature

Items | Sapphire lantern (empty) Sapphire lantern (unlit) Sapphire lantern (lit) Magic stone Stone bowl

Locations | Lumbridge Swamp Caves Chasm of Tears

Music | Tears of Guthix The Power of Tears

Related | Quick guide Tears of Guthix (minigame) Transcript Magical rocks