 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

The Forsaken Tower (#140)





Released | 10 January 2019 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Great Kourend , #3D

Lead developer(s) | Mod Ed



The Forsaken Tower is a quest in the Great Kourend quest series which focuses on Lovakengj . The player is tasked to retrieve Dinh's hammer from the Forsaken Tower to repair the damage on the Doors of Dinh , used to imprison Wintertodt in its prison.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Lady Vulcana Lovakengj in Lovakengj . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | For thousands of years, the Wintertodt has remained safely sealed behind the great Doors of Dinh. Alas, despite the best attempts of the Lovakengj smiths and the Arceuus mages, the doors are failing. Only Dinh himself knew the secrets behind the creation of these doors. Without his knowledge, there may be nothing to stop the Wintertodt escaping and bringing ruin upon Kourend. It is up to you to recover this knowledge.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Client of Kourend X Marks the Spot

Items required | Tinderbox (obtainable during quest)

Recommended | Antipoison Food Stamina potion Teleports to the quest start, Lovakengj Assembly : Xeric's talisman Fairy ring code D J R , may require a dramen or lunar staff Battlefront teleport Kharedst's memoirs with Shayzien teleport Wintertodt Teleport: Games necklace Bring 6 Coal and 1 Adamantite ore to complete a Hard Kourend & Kebos Diary task (requires 70 Smithing ( boostable ) )

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Unlocking Kourend ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

The Assembly [ edit | edit source ]

Head to the Lovakengj Assembly , west of the southern bank in Lovakengj of Great Kourend , and talk to Lady Vulcana Lovakengj , fairy ring code D J R will teleport you just south of her. If she's not ready to talk, the player must first talk to Ignisia to learn about Wintertodt. A member of the Kourend Council , Councillor Unkar , explains that the blacksmith Undor has found the cause of why the Doors of Dinh are failing, and requests assistance. Agree to help Unkar.

Head to the Wintertodt Camp . A games necklace can be used to get there very quickly. Alternatively, fairy ring C I S will drop you off just north of the Arceuus Library . Speak to Undor on the west side of the camp. If he says he need to finish a job first then finish the dialogue and talk with Ignisia found a little to the east. Then go back to Undor and tell him: I've been sent to help you.

He will explain that the Doors have been purposely damaged by someone or something, creating a small hole in the doors. Although not much, it is enough for the Wintertodt imprisoned within to draw a small amount of power into the prison.

Undor can easily fix the damage done, but he needs Dinh's hammer in order to repair the doors, which he believes is located in the Forsaken Tower , located on the peninsula due west of Lovakengj and due east [ ? ] of Mount Karuulm .

Fairy ring C I R takes you to the base of Mount Karuulm. Alternatively, players can use their Battlefront teleport to get to the graveyard directly south of the Forsaken Tower.

Tip: Players with 70 Smithing planning to complete a hard task for the Kourend & Kebos Diary should also bring an adamantite ore and six coal . Warning : Be sure to follow the steps below before igniting the furnace; otherwise, you may take up to 34 damage.

The Quest for the Hammer [ edit | edit source ]

Once you're inside the tower, inspect the display case . The interface shown displays each of the four puzzles required to unlock the case.

Optionally, search the crate by the south-west corner to obtain an ancient letter , which gives you a little more insight into the Tower's history.

Enter one of the doors to the back room. Search the cupboards for a tinderbox , and a 5 and 8-gallon jug . Warning : Do not light the furnace before completing the next step or you will take over 20 hitpoints of damage. In the north-west corner of the room there is a coolant dispenser . The objective is to get 4 gallons in the 5 gallon jug, which can be done by following these steps:

The riddle is a math problem known as a Water pouring puzzle , in which you must determine a multiple of 8s and 5s between which the difference is 4. Therefore, the solution is either to fill up the 5-gallon jug 4 times (+20) and emptying the 8-gallon twice (-16), or filling up the 8-gallon jug 3 times (+24) and emptying the 5-gallon jug 4 times (-20).

You should now have 4 gallons in the 5 gallon jug. Use the 5-gallon jug (with 4 gallons in it) on the furnace coolant mechanism on the left side of the furnace. Once it's full, light the furnace using your tinderbox.

Note: Once the furnace has been lit, players can smelt an adamantite bar for a Kourend & Kebos Diary hard task .

The display case interface. The powergrid solution.

Go into the basement using the ladder north to the display case and search the crates in the room immediately east of the ladder until you find a generator crank . Start the steam generator using the crank. Once the generator is started, align the power grid in the centre of the room (solution above).

Go upstairs to the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] . You will see a table of potions and a refinery . The refinery needs to be activated, but before it can be, it needs to be cleansed, by use of cleansing fluid. One of the potions on the table is cleansing fluid, but the correct number is random for each player. Using the wrong fluid on the refinery will result in up to 40 damage and poisoning. With an antipoison and plenty of food, the puzzle can be brute-forced by trial and error.

To solve which potion is the correct one, you can search the cupboard in the south-east [ ? ] corner of the room to find old notes with a riddle, which includes some potions' locations on the table relative to each other. The potion you need to get is the cleansing fluid . The riddle layout is the same for everyone, but the fluids differ.

Fluid A is directly left of Fluid B. Fluid B is next to Fluid C. Fluid D is directly right of Fluid E. Fluid A is opposite Fluid D.

For the solution:

A has to be 1 (far left). B has to be 2 (middle left). C has to be 3 (middle). D has to be 5 (far right). E has to be 4 (middle right).

Once you've chosen the correct fluid, click on the refinery, cleanse it, and then activate it.

Go up the ladder to the 2 nd floor [ UK ] 3 rd floor [ US ] . You will be in a room with three energy pylons and a runic altar . The western pylon has four weighted energy disks on it of varying size. The objective of this puzzle is to stack all of the rings in order on the middle pylon.

Remove the disc from a pylon and place it on another pylon in the following order:

With this done, all of the locks on the display case should be green. Go downstairs to the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] and retrieve Dinh's hammer .

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Return to Undor at the Wintertodt Camp , and give him Dinh's hammer . Now, he can fix the Doors of Dinh , but even so, the pyromancers will have to continue subduing the Wintertodt , as it has already gained much power in the time the Doors were damaged. He will tell you to return to Lady Vulcana Lovakengj , fairy ring code D J R will teleport you just south of her. Speak to her to complete the quest and obtain your reward.

Congratulations, Quest Complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 500 Mining experience 500 Smithing experience 6,000 coins Free use of the Lovakengj Minecart Network A page for Kharedst's memoirs , ' Jewellery of jubilation .' It teleports players north-east of the bank in Lovakengj. Ability to recolour the graceful outfit to the colours of Lovakengj .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of The Forsaken Tower is required for the following:

A Kingdom Divided

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Music [ edit | edit source ]

The Forsaken Tower

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

10 January 2024 ( update | poll ) | As Kourend Favour has been removed, the quest no longer requires it to start. Additionally, the Lovakengj favour certificate is no longer rewarded. Completion of the quest now unlocks free use of the Lovakengj Minecart Network ; players who have paid 100,000 coins to do so prior to this update can receive a refund from any minecart operator manning the stations. Completion of the quest now unlocks the ability to recolour a graceful outfit to the colours of Lovakengj .

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The pylons are a Tower of Hanoi puzzle, a classic puzzle invented in 1883. The short story Lab Notes from the Kourend Chronicles acts as a prequel to this quest.

v • t • e The Forsaken Tower

NPCs | Lady Vulcana Lovakengj Councillor Unkar Jorra Undor

Items | Ancient letter Generator crank 5-gallon jug 8-gallon jug Unknown fluid Old notes Energy disk Dinh's hammer

Rewards | Jewellery of jubilation

Locations | Lovakengj Doors of Dinh The Forsaken Tower

Scenery | Display Case Steam Generator Power Grid Furnace Coolant Dispenser Furnace Coolant Table Refinery Energy Pylon Runic Altar

Related | Quick guide Transcript