 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

The Tourist Trap (#44)





Released | 14 April 2003 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tytn H



The Tourist Trap is an intermediate quest set in the Kharidian Desert . The quest involves an undercover rescue operation into a slave camp to save an Al Kharidian woman's daughter.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Irena by the Shantay Pass , south of Al Kharid . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | South of Al Kharid a new desert pass has opened up, leading to the dangers of the Kharid desert.
Equip your desert garb and make sure your waterskin is full before heading off into the trackless dunes in search of desert adventure.

Requirements | 10 Fletching ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 20 Smithing ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) The ability to defeat a level 47 enemy

Items required | Note that all of the required items can be bought from Shantay at the Shantay Pass . Full Desert clothing ( shirt , robe and boots required). You will lose them. (Black desert robes, Black desert robe, and Black desert shirt does not work) A hammer 1 Bronze bar (recommended to bring at least 2 additional bars, 24-96% chance to succeed based on Smithing level) 10 feathers (recommended to bring 30-50 feathers, 24-99% chance to succeed based on Fletching level) Means to enter the desert. (Such as the Shantay pass , Desert amulet 2 , Teleport tablet or scrolls , Fairy rings or the Pharaoh's sceptre )

Recommended | 20 Combat level Inventory space to unequip all combat items at the start of the quest. This is required after the Mercenary Captain's death. 1-2 full waterskins and a knife or slash weapon to refill them by cutting cacti. (They can also be refilled from the bowl of water at the desert camp) Plenty of Stamina or energy potions . Choosing the incorrect dialogue or getting caught in the mines during the quest will require: 100 Coins to bribe the mine cart driver Pickaxe if caught in the mine to mine 15 rocks to get out

Enemies to defeat | Mercenary Captain (level 47)

Ironman concerns | You need to unequip your armour and weapons, and require two empty slots in addition to that. Failing dialogue will require 15 empty inventory spaces.

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Irena just outside the Shantay Pass . Ask her about her daughter until you offer to find her. After starting, unequip all of your metal armour , and put on your desert clothing . Since you're in the hot part of the desert, your character will grow thirsty and take a drink of water as time passes. Desert clothing will make your water last longer, and you can refill your waterskins by cutting cacti found around the desert with a knife or a slash weapon.

From the Shantay Pass, go south to find some footprints. Follow them until you reach some Mercenaries guarding the gate to the Desert Mining Camp . Search the gate and use the "watch" option on the mercenary captain , then talk to him. Compliment him and agree to do him favours until he asks you to kill an infamous bandit leader. Say you can't do it. Then say funny a captain who can't fight on his own.

Do not attempt to kill the Captain before this if you are prompted by a text box asking if you are sure. Otherwise his guards will swarm you and you will be teleported further into the desert, with the guards taking all your water and dealing significant damage.

Kill the captain and take his metal key .

Note : A dwarf multicannon can be set up west of the gate and the mercenary captain can be lured to the edge of his roaming area where the cannon will be able to hit him.

Note : The Captain kill is counted even if killed entirely with recoil damage.

Getting into the mine [ edit | edit source ]

Note: Unequip everything except your desert clothing after defeating the captain, and before entering the camp. Inside the mining camp, wear only your desert clothing (items are still equipable in your quiver). If you decided to go through the gate with your weapon equipped, you will be put in a cell. Simply bend the bars in the window, and climb out. Once you've climbed out, climb the rocks, then the cliff, and then the rocks once more to escape the camp. You can enter through the gate once more. You may also be sent away from the camp and have your waterskins taken from you. Warning : The waterskins are taken before some unskippable dialogue in which time heat damage can be queued, potentially killing players with low health from the fight after the dialogue finishes.

Once inside the camp, go into the building to the north, and search the table with a Bowl of water on it. You will receive a Cell door key , which will save you time if you get caught in the upcoming sections; simply use the key on the prison door if this happens.

Exit the hut and run to the east wall by the rocks. Talk to the male slave. He will tell you that he's planning on making an escape. Tell him that it sounds interesting. Help him remove his handcuffs and switch his Slave robes for your Desert clothing (the Black desert robe and Black desert shirt do not work). Do not attempt to do this with a guard close by as you may be detained by the guards here and they will remove the Cell door key from your possession.

Wearing the slave robes, enter the mine and follow the path until you come to a guarded cave opening (to save time you can click on the end of the cave directly south on the minimap, to auto-run through the cave). Talk to a guard and tell him you want to mine in a new area, and he will request a 'Tenti' pineapple . Now you can either back track and exit the way you came into the mine through the large double doors and head west to the gate entrance. Unequip ALL pieces of your slave robes and leave the desert camp through the front gate, or return to fairy ring B I Q .

Warning: You will be jailed if you don't unequip your slave robes before leaving the camp through the front gate or if you exit the mine through the doors with them unequipped.

Alternatively, if you take off your slave clothes whilst still in the mine, you will be quickly taken to the jail, but you will have to kill the mercenary captain again. You can escape jail by bending the cell window, climbing out, climbing the rocks and cliff, and descending outside the camp.

Note: There is a Rowdy slave that may attack you while in the mine. You can trap the rowdy slave behind the rocks on the wall in order to talk to the guard.

Go west to the Bedabin Camp and talk to Al Shabim in the southern circular tent. He will agree to give you the pineapple if you get some weapon plans for him, and gives you a key.

The plans [ edit | edit source ]

Go back to the Desert Mining Camp. Again, ensure that you have no armour or weaponry equipped upon entry. Enter the building to the north. Climb up the ladder to where the captain is. Search the south-west bookcase to learn he has an interest in sailing. Talk to the captain, following the choices below.

Start with "I wanted to have a chat?" He will insist that you leave. Next say "You seem to have a lot of books!" He will reply and agree that he does. Now say "So you're interested in sailing?" and he will perk up and say that it's been a passion of his for most of his life. Finally, reply "I could tell by the cut of your jib." Saying this will flatter him and he'll begin rambling off about sailing stories and will be distracted enough for you to unlock his Chest and steal the blueprints.

This will get him distracted enough for you to search the chest. After you have the plans, go back to the Bedabin Camp and show Al Shabim . He'll give you permission to use the anvil nearby. Enter the tent directly north of Al Shabim, near the magic carpets and use your bronze bar on the anvil to create a Prototype dart tip . Then add the feathers to make a Prototype dart . It is possible to fail both steps so make sure you have brought additional materials.  Take the dart and the technical plans back to Al Shabim and he will give you the pineapple you need.

Finding Ana [ edit | edit source ]

Equip your Slave outfit and head back down into the mine and give the tenti pineapple to the guard who wanted it. He'll now let you inside. Walk further down into the mine until you find yourself in front of a mine cart. Before going in the mine cart, search (not 'look in') the barrels nearby until you can pick one up one as you'll need one later. Then, get into the cart by searching it, and ride it to the other side.

Go down the north-west path, to find Ana . Simply use the barrel on her and head back toward the mine cart; making sure not to drop her.

Note: If you engage in conversation with Ana the guards are listening so do not mention anything about the guards or having a key as you will be thrown in the mine to mine ore and your key will be taken from you.

Rescuing Ana [ edit | edit source ]

Put the Ana in a barrel into the mine cart and send it down the track before getting in and riding down to the other side after her. Search an empty barrel and you'll automatically find and retrieve the one that has Ana in it ('look-in' doesn't work).

Warning : If you attempt to exit the mine with Ana still in your inventory then the guards will discover her, jail you and you will need to start the Rescuing Ana section again.

Walk to the winch bucket , put the barrel on it. The guard nearby will offer to help you hoist it up. Accept the help. The guard will hear Ana talk, so you'll want to select the complementary dialogue option to throw him off. (Note: This part of the quest is known to glitch; if you are unable to get Ana on the winch without alerting the guards log out and retry it)

Head back to the surface again and go to the winch in the south-west corner ( Do not take off your slave robes as you will be thrown in the underground cell and forced to mine 15 rocks). Operate it before searching the nearby barrel to retrieve Ana. Then, put her in the wooden cart nearby. Now, you need to talk to the mine cart driver .

In order to get out, tell the cart driver the following phrases. Warning : If you click the wrong dialogue options you will have to redo the majority of this quest!

2. "Nice cart." 2. "One wagon wheel says to the other, 'I'll see you around'." 1. "One good turn deserves another." 3. "Fired... no, shot perhaps!" 3. "In for a penny in for a pound." 3. "Well, you see, it's like this..." 1. "Prison riot in ten minutes, get your cart out of here!" (You could also choose to bribe the driver instead for 100 coins) 2. "You can't leave me here, I'll get killed!"

Search the cart and choose the option to get on it.

Head back to Irena , and she'll reward you for all your hard work.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 4,650 Experience in your choice of two skills (you may pick same skill twice): Agility , Fletching , Smithing , or Thieving . The ability to smith dart tips . The wrought iron key - allows access to a special door inside the Desert Mining Camp , which has several higher tier ores inside, including mithril ore and adamantite ore . Full slave robes 6 bronze darts

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of The Tourist Trap is required for the following:

Desert Treasure I

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

30 April 2015 ( update ) | Fixed a typo in some Tourist Trap dialogue.

v • t • e The Tourist Trap

NPCs | Irena Al Shabim Captain Siad Ana Mine cart driver Male slave Female slave Escaping slave Enemies Guard Mercenary Captain Mercenary Rowdy slave |  | Irena Al Shabim Captain Siad Ana Mine cart driver Male slave Female slave Escaping slave | Enemies | Guard Mercenary Captain Mercenary Rowdy slave

 | Irena Al Shabim Captain Siad Ana Mine cart driver Male slave Female slave Escaping slave

Enemies | Guard Mercenary Captain Mercenary Rowdy slave

Items | Rock Tenti pineapple Technical plans Prototype dart tip Prototype dart Barrel Ana in a barrel Slave robes Shirt Robe Boots Keys Cell door Metal Bedabin Wrought iron |  | Rock Tenti pineapple Technical plans Prototype dart tip Prototype dart Barrel Ana in a barrel | Slave robes | Shirt Robe Boots | Keys | Cell door Metal Bedabin Wrought iron

 | Rock Tenti pineapple Technical plans Prototype dart tip Prototype dart Barrel Ana in a barrel

Slave robes | Shirt Robe Boots

Keys | Cell door Metal Bedabin Wrought iron

Locations | Desert Mining Camp Bedabin Camp

Related | Quick guide Transcript