 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

The Golem (#76)





Released | 11 April 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | John A



The Golem is a quest centred around the remains of the city of Uzer in the Kharidian Desert . Long ago, the city, which was defended by an army of clay golems, was destroyed at the hands of the demon Thammaron , leaving only ruins and a single clay golem remaining. You must utilise this golem to find the truth behind the city's destruction.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to the clay golem in the ruins of Uzer , east of the Shantay Pass in the Kharidian Desert . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Deep in the desert stand the ruins of the once great city of Uzer, where a lone survivor, an ancient clay golem, forever paces back and forth. It is badly damaged, and its mind cannot rest until it has completed the task for which it was created.
It is up to you to uncover the secret of the lost city, and add the final chapter to a story started in the violence of the Third Age.

Requirements | 20 Crafting ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 25 Thieving ( boostable ) ( not required to start )

Items required | Vial Pestle and mortar Papyrus (can be bought from Ali Morrisane for 10gp) 4 soft clay (or a bracelet of clay and a pickaxe to mine north-west of the ruins) Phoenix feather (can be obtained north-west of the ruins) Means to enter the desert (such as the Shantay pass , Teleport tablets or scrolls , Fairy rings or the Pharaoh's sceptre )

Recommended | Protective clothing for the desert heat ( Desert boots , Desert robe , Desert shirt ) Waterskins Stamina or energy potions Fast travel to Uzer ( Necklace of passage to Eagles' Eyrie or Fairy ring to D L Q ) Fast travel to the Digsite ( Digsite pendant , Digsite teleport or the Gnome glider ) Fast travel to the Varrock Museum ( Varrock teleport ) A pickaxe to complete an Easy Desert Diary task mid-quest A woodcutting axe to cut the Teak Trees requiring Level 35 Woodcutting for Medium Desert Diary Task Hammer and chisel to remove gems from the throne A Bird snare for an Easy Desert Diary Task

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Desert ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

To start this quest travel to the Ruins of Uzer and speak to the golem . To get there, use the Necklace of Passage teleport to Eagles' Eyrie. At the teleport location, you can complete several easy and medium Desert Diary tasks before heading south-east towards the ruins where the quest is located. Some of these tasks include:

Stealing a Phoenix Feather from the Desert Phoenix for both a medium Desert Diary task and use in the quest itself Catching a Golden Warbler with a Bird Snare (requiring Level 5 Hunter) for an easy Desert Diary task Mining 5 pieces of clay for an easy Desert Diary task (4 of which can be used in the quest itself but require a method such as mining it with a bracelet of clay to turn it into soft clay ) Filling a Waterskin with water by cutting a Khardian cactus with a knife for an easy Desert Diary task

Alternatively, take fairy ring code D L Q and run north-east. Once you get to Uzer, offer to repair the golem to begin the quest.

Repairing the golem [ edit | edit source ]

The first thing you should do is repair the broken clay golem. If you did not bring your own clay , go north-west and mine four pieces of clay while wearing a bracelet of clay to mine soft clay (mine one more clay to complete the Easy Desert Diary task). If a bracelet of clay is not used, you can use the jug of water found in the town with the oasis south of the Ruins of Uzer to combine it with the mined clay to create soft clay for use with repairing the golem (world hopping is recommended to get additional jugs of water faster).

As you use the soft clay on the broken clay golem, he will become less damaged and finally be repaired. He will tell you that he was programmed to destroy a powerful demon, Thammaron . You need to help him slay the demon. Make sure to ask him how to open the portal . Outside the temple ruins, near the golem, there is a letter . Take the letter and read it.

Head east into the temple by climbing down the stairs behind the golem. Once inside, pick two black mushrooms nearby the entrance (one for the quest and one for the quest's sequel, Shadow of the Storm ). Then head to the north-west corner of the room and pick up the strange implement . The implement is also used during Shadow of the Storm, so it is advised to keep it as well.

Additionally, if you have Level 35 Woodcutting and brought a woodcutting axe: you can complete a medium Desert Diary task by cutting the nearby Teak Tree behind the ruins indicated by the tree icon on the minimap.

The Digsite [ edit | edit source ]

Go to the Digsite east of Varrock . Quick ways of getting to the digsite are using a Digsite pendant/teleport or the gnome glider . Find Elissa in the north-eastern part of the Digsite, She is wearing yellow and brown robes. Tell her you found a letter with her name on it. She will tell you about her late husband's notes and where they are located. After talking to her, go to the Exam Centre and search the south-eastern most bookshelf. You will find Varmen's notes . Read them before progressing.

Go to the Varrock Museum and ask Curator Haig Halen on the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] about a missing statuette. You must have the strange implement in your inventory to ask the Curator about the statuette. Then, pickpocket him to get a display cabinet key . Unlock the display case upstairs to steal the statuette . It is on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] in the first row of display cases and the fourth case after you ascend the stairs (display case 30).

Note: If you lose the statuette, you can use the display cabinet key on the empty display cabinet to receive a new one.

Returning to Uzer [ edit | edit source ]

Before going back to Uzer, make sure you have the required items listed above in your inventory. If you don't, there's a bank just south of the museum.

Head towards the ruins of Uzer from the Shantay Pass or through the D L Q fairy ring .

At Uzer, enter the dungeon near the golem and go to the middle. Use the statuette on the empty alcove on the wall. Turn all of them north to face towards the double doors to unlock the demon's lair. The east statues should face right and the west statues should face left when the player examines them. The statues will lock and the doors will automatically open. Go inside to discover that Thammaron had perished from his wounds from the battle long ago. Should you wish to do so, use your chisel and hammer on the throne to get six gems that you can keep. Go outside and talk to the clay golem again. He was not programmed to believe that the demon is dead, so you'll need to reprogram him.

With an empty vial in your inventory, use your pestle and mortar on the black mushroom to make black mushroom ink. Use the phoenix feather on your ink to make a phoenix quill pen , then use it on your papyrus to write a Golem program . Go back to the clay golem. Use the strange implement and then the golem program on him to get your reward.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,000 Thieving experience 1,000 Crafting experience 2 cut rubies , emeralds , and sapphires (collect these by using a chisel and hammer on the throne ) Unlock the carpet ride from Shantay Pass to Uzer

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of The Golem is required for the following:

Shadow of the Storm Medium Desert Diary Recipe for Disaster

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e The Golem

NPCs | Clay golem Elissa Varmen Curator Haig Halen Desert Phoenix Thammaron

Items | Letter Varmen's notes Strange implement Display cabinet key Statuette ( Scenery ) Golem program Phoenix feather Black mushroom Black dye Phoenix quill pen

Locations | Uzer Varrock Museum

Music | The Golem Forgotten Throne of the Demon

Related | Quick guide Transcript