 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

The Fremennik Trials (#62)





Released | 2 November 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Fremennik , #1

Lead developer(s) | James B



The Fremennik Trials is a quest about becoming an honorary member of the Fremennik people of Rellekka . Since they are not very friendly to outerlanders, you will have to pass their trials for them to accept you as one of their own.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Brundt the Chieftain (located in the longhall) in Rellekka . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | Council workmen have at last found the time to make repairs to the footbridge that connects Kandarin with the Barbarian town of Rellekka.
Do you have what it takes to impress the barbarians who live there, and perhaps be welcomed as an honorary member of their clan?

Requirements | If crafting the lyre : 25 Fletching ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 40 Woodcutting ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 40 Crafting ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) OR Players can kill Lanzig , Borrokar , Lensa or Freidir to obtain the lyre (1/17 chance) Ability to defeat a level-69 Draugen Ability to defeat a fairly strong warrior without armour , weapons , or spells

Items required | 5,252 coins Beer (obtainable during quest) Tinderbox Either a raw shark , raw manta ray , or raw sea turtle If crafting the lyre yourself: Woodcutting axe Knife Potato (obtainable during quest) Onion (obtainable during quest) Cabbage (obtainable during quest)

Recommended | 40 Combat level 48 Agility (when locating the Draugen ) Some food . If you forgot food, go to Peer the Seer's house and commence with his challenge. Search until you find a red herring. Cook the herring and get a cooked herring with red goop. Drop the goop and search the same place again to receive another red herring. Repeat. You should be able to get enough food to help with your combat tests. Once you use the red goop on the wooden disk from the house, you will no longer be able to search for a Red Herring. Armour and a weapon ( note: Ranged is not effective) 3-5 prayer potions Stamina potions A super combat potion or super set Camelot teleport Rellekka teleport or Teleport to House if your house is located in Rellekka Fairy ring A J R or C J R may also be used 7 rings of recoil (only if attempting to defeat Koschei 's final form)

Enemies to defeat | Koschei the deathless (first three forms) Draugen (level 69) OPTIONAL Lanzig , Borrokar , Lensa or Freidir (level 48) (multiple times)

Ironman concerns | 76 Fishing ( boostable ) is required to fish for raw sharks . Alternative methods to obtain one are: Rufus' Meat Emporium in Canifis sells a single raw shark . Frankie's Fishing Emporium in Port Piscarilius sells raw shark . River trolls in the Enchanted Valley drop them commonly, but require access to fairy rings . Waterfiends , combat level 115, rarely drop noted raw shark . Mogres , combat level 60, require completion of Skippy and the Mogres , 32 Slayer ( boostable ) , and fishing explosives to attack. They can rarely drop a raw shark . Wintertodt can drop a raw shark after 43 Fishing , though it will be very rare, but chances increase with Fishing level. Sections of this quest have strict inventory requirements: Thorvald the Warrior : No weapons, armour, or runes. (A Looting bag is not allowed, regardless of its contents) Peer the Seer : No items at all equipped or in your inventory.

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Note: If you start the quest, you will not be able to use Peer the Seer to bank your items, unless the player completes the easy Fremennik Achievement Diary (requires completion of this quest), which re-enables his deposit box functionality. Before fighting Koschei the deathless, you are allowed to use the Peer the Seer to bank your forbidden items.

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Begin the quest by speaking to Brundt the Chieftain , located north of the entrance of Rellekka , indicated by the quest icon. He explains that the only way to become a Fremennik is if you impress seven of the twelve members of the council of elders enough that they give you their vote.

Each of the seven that consider accepting you have a personal task for you to complete. The other five council members' votes are unattainable.

You can do the trials in any order.

​

Manni the Reveller [ edit | edit source ]

You can find Manni in the bar right next to the chieftain . He can be found walking around drinking. Talk to him and challenge him to see who can drink more beer before getting drunk. Take the keg of beer and beer tankard , which can be grabbed off the bar in the longhall.

Talk to him again to drink. You will lose no matter what, while he'll hardly get drunk at all.
Go back to Seers' Village , and buy a Low alcohol keg of beer from a Poison Salesman by the bar for 250 coins . ( Note: Buy a beer here if you didn't grab the beer tankard to save time getting the strange object .)

Use the beer or beer tankard on the council workman at the end of the bridge to Rellekka in order to give it to him and receive a strange object . You can do this while returning to Rellekka from the poison salesman.

Go to the Rellekka bar and look on the outside of the longhall for a pipe. It should be on the east wall - the same side with Olaf the Bard . Light the strange object with your tinderbox to get a lit strange object ; then, hide it in the pipe. Walk into the hall, grab another keg of beer ( Note: If you stored the keg in your bank you will not be able to pick up another one from the table), and use the low alcohol keg on the normal keg of beer that is in your inventory. The lit strange object will then explode, distracting the Fremennik and allowing you to switch the contents of the two kegs.

Talk to Manni again once you have switched the contents of the kegs. After drinking the keg of beer, Manni will give you his vote after noticing that you drunk a whole keg of beer without any side effects.

Olaf the Bard [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed for Option 1: An axe , knife , raw shark /raw ray /raw turtle , potato , onion , cabbage , (requires 25 40 40 ; vegetables obtained for free in Rellekka).

Items needed for Option 2: Combat equipment and a raw shark / manta ray / turtle

You should see Olaf east of the bar building where you started the quest.
He'll give you his vote if you can prove your worth as a bard by performing at the longhall. The first thing you need is a lyre.

There are two ways to get a lyre :

Option 1:

Note: You MUST start the trial by speaking with Olaf the Bard BEFORE speaking with Lalli or else he will not tell you about the other human.

Make a lyre yourself. First, grab a potato , cabbage , and onion from the vegetable patch in Rellekka before you leave. Once you leave the gates, head east until you find a Swaying tree , and cut a branch off it. Then use a knife on the branch. If you forgot to bring a knife, there is a knife spawn a few tiles north of the mining area in Rellekka. You will need an axe (blessed will not work) and a Woodcutting level of 40 in order to cut the tree, and a Crafting level of 40 to make the unfinished lyre.

You will then need to string the unfinished lyre, but unfortunately only golden wool will work. Head south-east of the tree until you find several golden sheep and a golden tree. Near them will be a troll called Lalli , who will initially think you want the apples when you want the wool. He will tell you that he already gave it to another human, so go find him.

The other human is Askeladden , who is the child located at the entrance of the long hall in Rellekka. Talk to him and he will give you a pet rock which he fooled Lalli with. Return to Lalli with the rock, but he will refuse it because the rocks might have baby rocks, so tell him that you can make a delicious rock soup with it.

Use the potato, cabbage, onion, and pet rock on Lalli's stew, which is just outside Lalli's cave home. Ask Lalli to taste it; he will like it and give you some golden fleece. The fleece will need to be strung into a ball of wool; even though there is a spinning wheel in Rellekka, you cannot use that until the quest is finished, so you will need to go to Seers' Village instead. Use the ball of wool on the unfinished lyre, which will require 25 Fletching.

Note: If you plan to create multiple lyres, use the drop trick to collect multiple fleece before proceeding. Once Olaf the Bard's trial is complete, you will not be able to get more fleece from Lalli until the entire Fremennik Trials quest is complete, and Lalli will then charge you 1,000 coins per fleece.

Option 2: Kill Lanzig , Borrokar , Lensa or Freidir in and around the buildings on the eastern side of Rellekka until they drop the lyre, each have a 1/17 chance to drop it. They all have a very quick respawn time and are located a short distance from each other. For mage and range users, you can use the fires in the centre of the buildings to safespot .

Once you've obtained the lyre, you need to get it enchanted. Bring a raw shark , raw manta ray , or raw sea turtle with you (if you have more than one lyre to enchant, then bring one fish for each lyre you wish to have enchanted; if using raw sharks, try to get raw sharks from Rufus' Meat Emporium in Canifis over a period of time). South-west of Rellekka is a strange altar located on a small peninsula. With the lyre in your inventory, use your raw shark/manta ray/sea turtle on the strange altar. A spirit named Fossegrimen will appear and enchant your lyre for you.

Enter the door the Longhall Bouncer is guarding to go onstage. ( Note: Drop any extra enchanted lyres, or they will become unenchanted). Play your lyre in front of the crowd, then talk to Olaf a final time to get his vote.

Sigli the Huntsman [ edit | edit source ]

Sigli can be found near the entrance gate.
Your task is to find the Draugen , an immortal spirit, and defeat it to weaken it. Keep using the hunters' talisman that he gives you to find where to go. The talisman is used the same way you might use a Runecraft talisman ; selecting locate gives a chat message in the direction to go. The Draugen moves around the Fremennik Province and can cross bridges. There is a small, transparent looking butterfly that follows the Draugen. It can be used to help locate him. Use the talisman on the exact tile that the Draugen is on to fight him. Level 48 Agility can help by allowing you access to the log balance shortcut, as the Draugen has a random location that changes frequently. One slow method to find the Draugen is to sit near the bridge to the east of the strange altar and camp in a spot. Eventually, the Draugen will appear, announced by a chat message, "The Draugen is here! Beware!" With the proper gear , a level-50 player should defeat him without problems. However, it should be noted that the Draugen is particularly resistant to ranged attacks. When you defeat him, the Draugen's essence will be absorbed into the hunters' talisman . Return with the talisman to Sigli to get his vote.

Sigmund the Merchant [ edit | edit source ]

You can find Sigmund in the market. He will want you to get him an exotic flower . This may sound easy, but you will end up having to get something or do something for another person, kind of like a miniature One Small Favour quest. Refer to the map above to easily locate the NPCs .

First, talk to the Sailor on the dock (second pier from the left) about the flower. Ask him about the Merchant's Trial. He will want a romantic ballad composed for him. Talk to Olaf the Bard . He will ask you to get him a pair of new boots . Go to the clothing store (aside: the clothing store is also the starting point of the Rellekka agility course on this building, so in your minimap, you can see the Agility icon) which can be found west of Sigmund and ask Yrsa about them. She will agree to make the boots only if Brundt the Chieftain will lower the taxes on the stores. If you talk to Brundt in the longhall, he will tell you that the clan will be able to afford it if Sigli the Huntsman will show him the best places to hunt monsters. Talk to Sigli just south of the longhall. He agrees but first will want a custom-made bowstring . Go to the helmet store just north of the longhall. The shopkeeper, Skulgrimen , will give you the bowstring in exchange for the rare fish that the fisherman caught. Head to the dock located west of the helmet shop ( Torfinn is on this dock) and talk to the fisherman on the northern end of the dock. He will ask you to get a map of the best spots to catch edible fish. Find Swensen the Navigator , who is located in the building south of the marketplace. He will make the map but he will want a weather forecast first. Peer the Seer is found just north-west of Swensen. He will give you a forecast if Thorvald the Warrior will agree to be his bodyguard. Thorvald the Warrior is found in the helmet store. He wants you to get him a seat in the longhall. Manni the Reveller is found in the longhall. He will gladly give up his seat if Thora the Barkeep will make him one of her legendary cocktails . Thora, also in the longhall, will only agree to make one if you can get a signed note from Askeladden for him to stay out of the bar. Talk to Askeladden, just south of the longhall, to get the note for 5000 coins . Then, give the note to Thora, the cocktail to Manni, the token to Thorvald, the contract to Peer, the forecast to Swensen, the chart to the fisherman, the fish to Skulgrimen, the string to Sigli, the map to Brundt, the slip to Yrsa, the boots to Olaf, the ballad to the sailor (the second dock from the left in Rellekka), and finally the flower to Sigmund. You will get his vote.

Swensen the Navigator [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Swensen in his house, south-west of the longhall. Your task is to navigate your way through his maze of portals. Enter the maze by going down the ladder in the south-west of his house. In each room of the maze, there are four portals: One on the north wall, one on the south wall, one on the east wall, and one on the west wall. In the brighter rooms with burning torches, one of the portals will take you to the next room on the correct path. The other three will send you to a dim room, with extinguished torches, spider webs, and skeletons. The darker rooms are dead ends, their portals only lead to other dead ends, you must climb the rope and start over.

The trick is to spell his name. First, go in the S outh portal, then the W est, then E ast, then N orth, then S outh, then E ast, and finally N orth again (SWENSEN) . After you finish, talk to Swensen to get his vote (make sure to put your minimap focused with the north on the right spot).

Thorvald the Warrior [ edit | edit source ]

Note for Ultimate Ironmen : Looting bags are not allowed in this fight, regardless of their contents. Note for Hardcore Group Ironmen : If you die to the 4th phase in the fight, this is a SAFE DEATH. You do not actually die, the fight ends if you get to 1 health.

Thorvald lives in the helmet store. His task is for you to fight a special warrior called Koschei the deathless . There are two rules:

You must fight and defeat him 3 times. Every time he is defeated, he regains his health back and becomes much stronger. You only need to defeat Koschei for the first 3 rounds; if you die to him on the 4th round, you will pass Thorvald's trial. Hardcore ironmen and hardcore group ironmen only need to be concerned about dying to the first 3 forms. Losing to his fourth form will not actually kill the player; a small cut-scene ends the fight when you are about to lose to the fourth form. You cannot use any weapons or armour or bring runes . The Ardougne cloak counts as armour but the boots of lightness do not. However, you can use food , Prayer , god books and jewellery (excluding those that give combat bonuses, such as combat bracelet ). H.A.M gear is suitable for combat with Koschei as that counts as clothing but still giving some combat defence. Rings of recoil or the ring of suffering (ri) are strongly recommended. A Dramen branch and a knife can be used to create a Dramen staff , or  a Celastrus bark and a knife can be used to create a Battlestaff .

There are also some things to note:

You are given the option to send your items to the bank before entering the basement. Talk to the Peer the Seer to do so. Note that all of your items, both equipped and in your inventory, will be banked if you have any equipment that you are not allowed to take in with you. However, you can drop your items on the ground before asking Peer the Seer to deposit your items, keeping them for the battle. CLUE scrolls count as armour. You can't bring arrowtips or unstrung bows and thus cannot fletch any equipment in the arena like you can on Entrana . It is possible to flinch Koschei but not recommended due to the fact if you take too long to kill he will despawn and you will have to restart. Do not wear a ring of life as you will be teleported all the way back to your spawn point. Reward caskets and/or mystery boxes may also be brought into the arena for their armour and weapon drops. It is possible to glitch the fight if you die, and you come back quick enough it is possible to keep fighting him from the point at which you died, and ignore the second Koschei that pops up. The time limit for the third form is 10 minutes. If you are unable to beat Koschei's third form in this time, he will despawn, and you will have to reset.

Stock up on the food and potions, then proceed to head down to Thorvald's basement. When you enter the arena, Koschei is hidden. Simply roam around for a short while, and he will appear.

Koschei's first form is easy and should give you no problems. After you defeat him, he will regain all of his health and become stronger. There is no way to safespot him as you have no weapons, but you can trap him over the hole and wait a while for your health to regenerate. However, if you stay there too long, he will disappear and reappear after you run around, back in his first form. His level is not displayed.

His second form might give you a bit of trouble, and you might need to use food or Prayer.

His third form is fairly difficult, so you will most likely need to use food and/or Prayer here. You may need a prayer potion here as it is possible to run out of prayer points early. This is the last form required for you to defeat to complete the quest.

Note: Leaving after the 3rd fight resets your progress. Enter the 4th fight regardless and, should you lose, his fourth form may roam the area when you return).

The fourth form is the hardest. He will hit once every game tick, but can only hit for 1 damage at a time. It is recommended that the player use a Ring of recoil , but be sure to bring enough rings for the fight (7 minimum) as the ring breaks after 40 hitpoints of damage, and Koschei has 255 HP in this form. Some high level food will also be required to heal the damage taken using this method. In this form, Koschei will quickly drop your prayer points in intervals of 1-2 every second and will drop all of your prayer points as soon as the form starts. If you manage to beat Koschei in this form, you will be given a Fremennik blade . Otherwise, when Koschei leaves you at 1 hitpoint, you will kneel on the ground and find yourself upstairs. Regardless, Thorvald will give you his vote for your bravery in fighting a superior foe.

Peer the Seer [ edit | edit source ]

Peer is found south of the market. He'll give you his vote if you can simply enter the front door to his house, and then come out the other side. This is more difficult than it seems because you cannot take any items in, and you will encounter many puzzles inside. You can deposit all your items by completing the dialogue after Peer introduces his trial.

Note: Because Peer will bank all of your items in your inventory, this should be done last to save a lot of time walking to and from the bank.

To get in, you need to answer a puzzle. The answer is a four-letter word, and Peer will give you a clue for each letter and the word itself. All possible answers include: time, life, mage, fire, wind, mind, and tree.

Riddle | Answer

My first is in mage, but not in wizard. My second in goblin, and also in lizard. My third in night, but not in the day. My last is in fields, but not in the hay. My whole is the most powerful tool you will possess. | Mind

My first is in tar, but not in a swamp. My second in fire, but not in a camp. My third is in eagle, but never in air. My last is in hate, but also in care. My whole wears more rings the older I get. | Tree

My first is in the well, but not at sea. My second in 'I', but not in 'me'. My third in flies, but insects not found. My last is in earth, but not in the ground. My whole when stolen from you causes you death. | Life

My first is in fish, but not in the sea. My second in birds, but not in a tree. My third is in doors, but not in a hall. My last is everything, but nothing at all. My whole cannot die as long as it has food. | Fire

My first is in water, and also in tea. My second is in fish, but not in the sea. My third is in mountains, but not underground. My last is in strike, but not like in pound. My whole crushes mountains, drains rivers, and destroys civilisations. All that live fear my passing. | Time

My first is in wizard, but not in a mage. My second in jail, but not in a cage. My third is in anger, but not in a rage. My last in a drawing, but not on a page. My whole helps to make bread, let birds fly and boats sail. | Wind

After you have solved the riddle, use the ladder.

You now need to open a chest with a balancing mechanism as a lock to get a vase . To open it, you must set exactly four litres of water on it.

To solve the puzzle, you will need some items found in the room; search and study everything until you find an old red disk , a wooden disk , a red herring , an empty jug , and an empty bucket .

Once you have all of the items, you can solve the puzzle by doing the following:

Fill up the bucket from the tap south of the cooking range. Use the full bucket on the jug to end up with a 2/5ths full bucket . Empty the full jug by using it on the drain. Use the bucket on the jug to get a 2/3rds full jug . Fill up the bucket with the tap again, and then use the bucket on the jug to get a 4/5ths full bucket . Use the bucket on the locked chest to get the vase . Use the red herring on the cooking range to receive sticky red goop . Use the sticky red goop on the wooden disk so you have 2 red disks . Go down the east ladder and use both red disks on the abstract mural to receive the vase lid . Use the full jug on the vase to get a vase of water . Use the vase lid on the vase, creating a sealed vase . Use the sealed vase on the frozen table to get a frozen key . (frozen table is back up the ladder) Unfreeze the key by cooking it on the range. Go down the east ladder (Note: Use the east ladder nearest to the frozen table. If you exit using the other door, you will have to do some parts over again. ) and out the exit to get Peer's vote.

Once you have all seven council members' votes, head back to Chieftain Brundt , and speak to him to complete the quest.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 2,812.4 Agility experience 2,812.4 Attack experience 2,812.4 Crafting experience 2,812.4 Defence experience 2,812.4 Fishing experience 2,812.4 Fletching experience 2,812.4 Hitpoints experience 2,812.4 Strength experience 2,812.4 Thieving experience 2,812.4 Woodcutting experience Access to the islands of Miscellania , Etceteria , Neitiznot , and Jatizso along with access to the facilities in Rellekka. Ability to wear the Fremennik warrior , berserker , archer , and farseer helms Ability to have Fossegrimen create the enchanted lyre(i) A herring Jarvald will charge no fee for travelling to Waterbirth Island A Fremennik name as part of becoming a clansman in the Fremennilk

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of The Fremennik Trials is required for the following:

The Fremennik Isles Throne of Miscellania Olaf's Quest Lunar Diplomacy Rag and Bone Man II (completion of Horror from the Deep may be used instead) All tiers of the Fremennik Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

6 February 2014 ( update ) | After Koschei the Deathless drained your prayer in Fremennik Trials, players could simply restore it and re-activate their prayers. Koschei now keeps it drained.

21 March 2013 ( update ) | A minor animation bug in the Fremennik Trials quest when playing the lyre has been resolved.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

If one drops the keg just before the drinking competition begins in the first part, the player will drink from the keg but the keg will stay full. During Olaf the Bard's Trial , the adventurer will sing a different song if they have a level of 99 in any non-melee skill, or have gained access to the Legends' Guild , Heroes' Guild , or Champions' Guild . A unique couplet also exists for members of the Myths' Guild , even though it can never be performed, as completion of The Fremennik Trials is a prerequisite for Dragon Slayer II . [1] If a member of the Myths' Guild were able to go on stage, they would sing: Now you may not believe, That I am rather skilled. But I have made my name, as part of the Myths' Guild! The pet rock is based on an actual fad from the 1970s. The original, real-life pet rock was invented by Gary Dahl . Players can interact with the rock in the same way one can interact with other pets : through talking, stroking, feeding, playing fetch, or telling the rock to stay. The rock will seem much happier after these interactions. During Peer the Seer's Trial, examining the unicorn head upstairs gives the examine text "Alas poor unicorn, I knew him well", a reference to Prince Hamlet's famous quotation "Alas, poor Yorick ! I knew him, Horatio." in Shakespeare's The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark . The "Rock Soup" portion of the quest is a reference to an old folk tale, often called " Stone Soup ", where hungry travellers use a stone in a boiling pot of water to get local villagers to share in making the soup. Stone soup is still made today; placing a stone in soup adds a stony flavour. During the Seer's trial, the puzzle items include a red herring. A red herring is a term used to refer to a misleading and usually useless key in a puzzle. During this trial, however, the literal red herring is used to complete the trial, and the magnet, which seems useful, is in fact the red herring. The name "Koschei the Deathless" is a reference to the character of the same name found in Russian folklore.

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e The Fremennik Trials

NPCs | Poison Salesman Council workman Lalli Askeladden Fossegrimen Yrsa Skulgrimen Thora the Barkeep Longhall Bouncer Sailor Styrmir Fremennik council Brundt the Chieftain Manni the Reveller Olaf the Bard Peer the Seer Sigli the Huntsman Sigmund The Merchant Swensen the Navigator Thorvald the Warrior Inga Agnar Sassilik Pontak Fisherman Enemies Koschei the deathless Lanzig Freidir Borrokar The Draugen |  | Poison Salesman Council workman Lalli Askeladden Fossegrimen Yrsa Skulgrimen Thora the Barkeep Longhall Bouncer Sailor Styrmir | Fremennik council | Brundt the Chieftain Manni the Reveller Olaf the Bard Peer the Seer Sigli the Huntsman Sigmund The Merchant Swensen the Navigator Thorvald the Warrior Inga Agnar Sassilik Pontak Fisherman | Enemies | Koschei the deathless Lanzig Freidir Borrokar The Draugen

 | Poison Salesman Council workman Lalli Askeladden Fossegrimen Yrsa Skulgrimen Thora the Barkeep Longhall Bouncer Sailor Styrmir

Fremennik council | Brundt the Chieftain Manni the Reveller Olaf the Bard Peer the Seer Sigli the Huntsman Sigmund The Merchant Swensen the Navigator Thorvald the Warrior Inga Agnar Sassilik Pontak Fisherman

Enemies | Koschei the deathless Lanzig Freidir Borrokar The Draugen

Items | Keg of beer Beer tankard Tankard Low alcohol keg Strange object Lit strange object Branch Pet rock Golden fleece Golden wool Wooden disk Magnet Blue thread Small pick Toy ship Old red disk Red disk Red herring Sticky red goop Frozen key Seer's key Hunters' talisman Legendary cocktail Champions token Unusual fish Custom bow string Sturdy boots Exotic flower Fremennik blade Bucket Empty 1/5ths full 2/5ths full 3/5ths full 4/5ths full Full Frozen Jug Empty 1/3rds full 2/3rds full Full Frozen Vase Vase Vase of water Vase lid Sealed vase Frozen vase Lyre Unstrung Lyre Enchanted Imbued Texts and scrolls Promissory note Warriors' contract Weather forecast Sea fishing map Tracking map Fiscal statement Fremennik ballad |  | Keg of beer Beer tankard Tankard Low alcohol keg Strange object Lit strange object Branch Pet rock Golden fleece Golden wool Wooden disk Magnet Blue thread Small pick Toy ship Old red disk Red disk Red herring Sticky red goop Frozen key Seer's key Hunters' talisman Legendary cocktail Champions token Unusual fish Custom bow string Sturdy boots Exotic flower Fremennik blade | Bucket | Empty 1/5ths full 2/5ths full 3/5ths full 4/5ths full Full Frozen | Jug | Empty 1/3rds full 2/3rds full Full Frozen | Vase | Vase Vase of water Vase lid Sealed vase Frozen vase | Lyre | Unstrung Lyre Enchanted Imbued | Texts and scrolls | Promissory note Warriors' contract Weather forecast Sea fishing map Tracking map Fiscal statement Fremennik ballad

 | Keg of beer Beer tankard Tankard Low alcohol keg Strange object Lit strange object Branch Pet rock Golden fleece Golden wool Wooden disk Magnet Blue thread Small pick Toy ship Old red disk Red disk Red herring Sticky red goop Frozen key Seer's key Hunters' talisman Legendary cocktail Champions token Unusual fish Custom bow string Sturdy boots Exotic flower Fremennik blade

Bucket | Empty 1/5ths full 2/5ths full 3/5ths full 4/5ths full Full Frozen

Jug | Empty 1/3rds full 2/3rds full Full Frozen

Vase | Vase Vase of water Vase lid Sealed vase Frozen vase

Lyre | Unstrung Lyre Enchanted Imbued

Texts and scrolls | Promissory note Warriors' contract Weather forecast Sea fishing map Tracking map Fiscal statement Fremennik ballad

Locations and scenery | Rellekka Rellekka Longhall Bar Golden tree Lalli's Stew Swaying tree

Music | Warrior

Related | Abstract mural Fremennik name Quick guide