 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

The Grand Tree (#40)





Released | 12 December 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Gnome , #1

Lead developer(s) | Tom W



The Grand Tree is a gnome quest centred on protecting the Grand Tree from dying upon the gnome race.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to King Narnode Shareen in the Grand Tree . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | The Grand Tree , which shelters the majority of the small gnome population of RuneScape , is dying. Is it human sabotage or an inside job? Help King Shareen to find the true cause and save the tree gnomes from an uncertain fate.

Requirements | 25 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) The ability to defeat a level 172 Black demon (safespottable for Ranged and Magic or melee using a halberd ).

Items required | 1,000 coins , unless you have helped Femi or completed Tree Gnome Village and plan to use spirit trees.

Recommended | 50 Combat level Stamina or energy potions Fast travel to the Tree Gnome Stronghold ( Balloon Transport System or Slayer Ring to the Slayer Cave to directly reach the Stronghold -- alternatively, use a Necklace of Passage to the Outpost and walk north) Fast travel to Hazelmere ( Fairy rings to C L S , or Watchtower or Nightmare Zone minigame teleport and walk east if you have no access to fairy rings) Slayer ring to the Slayer Dungeon or a Necklace of Passage to the Wizards' Tower for easy access to fairy rings

Enemies to defeat | Black demon (level 172) (can be safespotted)

League notes | Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

Items suggested: Teleportation methods to Tree Gnome Stronghold and Yanille .

Speak to King Narnode Shareen on the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] of the Grand Tree . (Be sure to have 2 empty inventory slots) He will take you underground and ask you for your help reviving the Grand Tree, which is ill, and give you a translation book and a bark sample .

Take both these items to Hazelmere . He can be found on a small island east of Yanille . There are jungle spiders (level 44) on the way to his house, although they are not poisonous . There are several ways to reach him easily:

The Watchtower Teleport . The Grouping teleport to the Nightmare Zone . The Grouping teleport to the Fishing Trawler . If your player-owned house ( POH ) is in Yanille, you can cast Teleport to House . The fairy ring code C L S brings you right next to his house. Use the ring of dueling teleport to Castle Wars and make your way East. Or you may also take a charter ship to Port Khazard and make your way South. Players with the Ardougne cloak 1 can teleport to the Kandarin Monastery , north of Yanille .

Hazelmere [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Hazelmere . You cannot understand his language and vice versa, but you can communicate with the help of sign language regardless. He will take your bark sample , and after examining it, he will give you a message . When translated using the translation book it reads

“ | A man came to me with the King's seal. I gave the man Daconia rocks . And Daconia rocks will kill the tree! | ”

Return to King Narnode in the Grand Tree , and tell him the message above. He will ask what the translation is in three lines, so pick each line from the choices offered. If none of the options match, select the "None of the above" option until the correct option presents itself. For the first line, you have to go to the third set of choices offered. He will explain that someone used his seal to have Hazelmere give away Daconia rocks , which were made as a "fail-safe" and can kill the tree. He will direct you to talk to Glough , his head tree guardian.

Glough is located south of the Grand Tree , east of the ramp, in a tree house. He will tell you that he will take care of the problem.

Investigation [ edit | edit source ]

Tip: If you have completed the Tree Gnome Village quest, you can use a Spirit tree as teleportation. bring with you runes to teleport to Varrock and use the spirit tree at the Grand Exchange , This will come in handy.

Return to King Narnode Shareen . He will tell you that Glough has caught and imprisoned a human, who was found carrying the Daconia rocks . Ask to see the prisoner. Talk to King Narnode Shareen again, and he will tell you that the prisoner is located on the top floor of the Grand Tree .

The prisoner, whose name is Charlie , will tell you that he had Hazelmere give the Daconia rocks to him, though he was only doing as Glough asked him to do. He tells you to search Glough's house for evidence. Go to Glough's house. Search the cupboard , and you will find his journal. Talk to Glough, who then orders the guards at you. After the conversation, you will be put in the cell next to Charlie's. Talk to Charlie, he will tell you about the Ship Yard on Karamja , and give you the password to access it, which is Ka-Lu-Min .

The king will appear and apologise for Glough imprisoning you. He will tell you that guards are watching the entrances, and tells you to quickly escape on the Gnome glider on the top floor of the Grand Tree , next to the cells. Talk to the pilot. He will ask you where you want to go and you will ask him to fly you to Karamja .

Karamja [ edit | edit source ]

The glider will crash land just west of the Ship Yard. Run east past the level 53 jogres , they could attack you (so be wary of this if you're a low level) . Once you reach the Ship Yard attempt to open the gate. A shipyard worker will stop you. Tell him Glough sent you. He will ask for a password (Charlie told you it is): Ka-Lu-Min . After confirming the correct password he'll let you open the gate.

Go out to the southern docks and you'll find the foreman . Once you find him you have two choices. You kill him (he is a level 23), or you talk to him. Both will result in you getting proof of Glough's plans.

If you choose to talk . Tell him Glough sent you. He will then take you somewhere private. You'll need to answer some personal questions about Glough.

He will ask how his wife is, select " Sadly his wife is no longer with us ".
He will then ask what his favourite dish is, select " Worm holes ".
Finally, he will ask for his new girlfriend's name, which is " Anita ".

Once you've made your choice and you've got the lumber order , return to The Grand Tree . If you have completed the Tree Gnome Village quest, either Teleport to Varrock and use the spirit tree at the Grand Exchange , or use Ardougne cloak 1 or higher and run northwest to the spirit tree to teleport you to Gnome stronghold .

If you haven't completed the Tree Gnome Village quest then make your way to the Tree Gnome Stronghold front gate and talk to Femi . Tell her you need to get inside, and she will sneak you in. If you haven't helped her previously, she will charge you 1,000 coins. If you have, she will help you for free.

Tuzo [ edit | edit source ]

After you show the king the note from the foreman , he still will not believe your accusations, call you as paranoid as Glough , and ask you to leave for your own safety.

Speak to Charlie again on the top floor of the Grand Tree . He will suggest you speak to Anita , Glough's girlfriend. Go and talk to her. She is in the second house west to the swamp, you have to go upstairs. She will give you a key and ask you to return it to Glough.

Go to Glough's house, and use the key to open the chest. Inside, you will find some of his notes detailing his plan to seize control of Gielinor . After you pick them up they are called "Invasion plans" in your inventory. Click "Continue" otherwise you won't get the notes.

Note: You must have at least 4 free inventory space before you do the next step.

Take the notes to King Shareen. He will still not believe your evidence. He will tell you that in their search of Glough's house all they found were four bundles of twigs . They spell out the word TUZO . Using the Translation book , this translates to "open." The King will give you all four bundles of twigs.

Return to Glough's house, and climb up the watchtower. This tree is located on the east side of the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] and requires 25 Agility to climb. Up in the watchtower, you will find a stone stand and four pillars. Use the twigs with the four pillars to spell out TUZO , starting from the far left. After you have placed the twigs on the four pillars, you will hear gears turning. You can now open the trap door on this platform, but do not go in yet unless you are prepared for the fight.

Encountering the Black demon [ edit | edit source ]

After you enter the trapdoor, Glough will come and talk to you, threatening you with his plans to wipe out humans.

After the conversation concludes, a level 172 black demon will appear to the west and attack you.

It can be fought with any combat style, but can be safespotted with Ranged , Magic or a halberd . To safespot, stand where Glough is during the fight, if the black demon can still attack you, move back behind another rock until he can no longer attack you. You can also go into the tunnel to the west to where the demon cannot reach and safely attack him using ranged or magical attacks. He can also be safespotted by standing north of the ladder. The Black Demon has very low magic and negative magic defence bonus, and has a 40% weakness to water spells; as such, it's recommended for low level players should use the highest tier water spell they can use and afford.

Safespot 1: The recommended safespot located directly north of the entrance ladder. Safespot 2: The safespot where Glough stands. Not recommended for low Hitpoints or Hardcore Ironmen . Safespot 3: Alternative safespot, run past the demon into the tunnel where it spawned. Only works with Ranged or Magic . It will get at least one attack on the player.

The adamant king [ edit | edit source ]

After defeating the demon, walk along the passage until you find King Shareen standing by a ladder. Talk to him and tell him that Glough had sent a demon to attack you, but he will not believe you. He finally sends a guard to scout for Glough, to which the guard comes back with Glough, who was hiding amongst the stones. The king apologises, and asks you to locate the last Daconia rock .

Note: You will need one empty space in your inventory for the next part.

Search the roots all around the area until you find the Daconia rock. Though it can be time-consuming, you might need to search all of the roots. If you somehow lose the rock, it'll spawn in the root where you first found it.

When the dialogue pops up stating that you found the stone, click continue or it won't appear in your inventory. After obtaining the rock, talk to King Shareen again for your reward for saving the Grand Tree.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

5 Quest points 18,400 Attack experience 7,900 Agility experience 2,150 Magic experience Access to the mine under the Grand Tree . Access to the Gnome glider transportation system. Ability to use the Agility shortcut from the Grand Tree to the Barbarian Outpost (with 37 Agility ). Ability to use the Spirit Tree in the Stronghold after the completion of Tree Gnome Village . Completing this quest awards the player with 5 Kudos which can be claimed by talking to Historian Minas in the Varrock Museum .

Unlocks:

Black demon accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of The Grand Tree is required for the following:

Monkey Madness I The Eyes of Glouphrie

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

21 April 2021 ( update ) | Dialogue and quest progression in The Grand Tree quest has been improved.

25 April 2013 ( update ) | The Grand Tree showdown with the Black demon now works like a cutscene.

v • t • e The Grand Tree

NPCs | King Narnode Shareen Hazelmere Glough Charlie Foreman Shipyard worker Anita Femi

Items | Bark sample Translation book Hazelmere's scroll Lumber order Glough's key Glough's journal Invasion plans Daconia rock Twigs T U Z O |  | Bark sample Translation book Hazelmere's scroll Lumber order Glough's key Glough's journal Invasion plans Daconia rock | Twigs | T U Z O

 | Bark sample Translation book Hazelmere's scroll Lumber order Glough's key Glough's journal Invasion plans Daconia rock

Twigs | T U Z O

Locations | Tree Gnome Stronghold Grand Tree Ship Yard

Music | Attack 2 Fanfare 2 Narnode's Theme

Miscellaneous | Quick guide Transcript