 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

The Depths of Despair (#134)





Released | 9 November 2017 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Great Kourend , #3B

Lead developer(s) | Mod Ed



The Depths of Despair is a quest that follows on from Client of Kourend in the Great Kourend quest series . It was announced on the 9th of October 2017 and polled as part of the Old School Content Poll #57 .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Lord Kandur Hosidius at his home in Hosidius , north-west of the Vinery . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Artur Hosidius has gone missing, and Lord Kandur Hosidius needs your help to find his son and bring him home.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Client of Kourend X Marks the Spot 18 Agility ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Ability to kill a level 36 Sand Snake

Items required | None

Recommended | 15 Combat level Skills necklace to teleport to Woodcutting Guild Xeric's talisman Super energy / Stamina potions A weapon Food (if low level) An Arceuus Library Teleport Dramen / Lunar staff for fairy ring teleport to Arceuus , Ardougne cloak 1 's monastery teleport brings you close to a fairy ring as well as the amulet of glory to Edgeville then running east to the grand exchange fairy ring. Alternatively, if you haven't completed the Ardougne easy diary, a Games necklace to teleport to Wintertodt.

Enemies to defeat | Sand Snake (level 36)

League notes | Unlocking Kourend ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Travel to Port Piscarilius in Kingdom of great Kourend. Go south to Hosidius and talk with Lord Kandur Hosidius in the house north-west of the Hosidius Vinery

Tip: Using the Xeric's Glade option on Xeric's Talisman teleports you close to him. Alternatively, use a fairy ring to Hosidius Vinery (code: A K R ) and run northwest through the vineyard to a house just north of the wheat patch).

He tells you that his eldest son, Artur Hosidius , has gone missing, and that they are desperate for help in finding him. Select chat options 2 and 1 to agree to help him, and he will ask you to begin by talking to his family and servants.

Speak to Chef Olivia in the kitchen. Olivia reveals that she and Artur are lovers, that he told her he was looking for the original copy of the Accord of Twill , and that he has been spending a lot of time researching in the Arceuus Library . She refers you to a librarian, Galana , who might be able to help you.

The Envoy to Varlamore [ edit | edit source ]

Travel north to the Arceuus Library which can be found next to Tower of Magic. Tip : a fairy ring can be found nearby (code: C I S ).

Speak to Galana , who is found in the north-eastern segment on the ground floor. She will suggest you find a book called Varlamore envoy , the location of which is random for each player. Ask her where it is and search the bookcases in that area until you find it—each square in game is its own bookshelf, so be thorough.

Note: If you log out before finding the book, make sure to speak to Galana again, as the location may have changed.

Read the book, and you will discover that the original copy of the Accord was lost at sea, and that the ship carrying it sunk into the Crabclaw Caves , whose entrance is found south of the Woodcutting Guild , marked with the icon. (If you don't read the book, a message saying "You have no reason to go in there." will appear in the chat when you try to enter the Crabclaw Caves.) Skill necklace teleport to Woodcutting Guild or row boat to land's end.

The Crabclaw Caves [ edit | edit source ]

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Items needed: Weapons, armour, and food.

Make your way into the Crabclaw Caves (not Crabclaw Isle ), which are found by heading south from the Woodcutting Guild or Hosidius West mine cart for 20 gp. ( Show map )

Once inside the cave follow the path east, then south through a crevice. Follow the path over the Stepping Stones and through the rocks. If your Hitpoints level and Agility level are both low, you might want to bring some food in case you fall while attempting to cross the stepping stones or rocks, and for the upcoming fight.

Note: Killing a Sand Crab is an Easy Task in the Kourend & Kebos Diary .

At the end of the caves, climb down the tunnel entrance to find Artur Hosidius . He believes the chest further ahead contains the original Accord, but it is guarded by a Sand Snake . As he is not good at fighting, he asks you to kill it for him. Climb the rocks ahead, and kill the Sand Snake. It is weak to magic , so magical attacks are recommended to kill it quickly. Once you have killed the Sand Snake, search the chest, which contains the original Royal Accord of Twill .

Tip: The sand snake can be safespotted by going all the way either north or south along the west wall. Once the snake is near or attacks you, continue hugging the west wall and walk back to the centre entrance where the rubble is. Note that the max hit of the snake is 3.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Return to the Hosidius family's house, and speak to Lord Kandur . He will take the Accord , and give you your reward.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,500 Agility experience 4,000 coins A page for Kharedst's memoirs , ' Lunch by the lancalliums '. It teleports players to just east of the Hosidius Kitchen . Ability to recolour the graceful outfit to the colours of Hosidius . Ability to fight the Sand Snake within the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of The Depths of Despair is required for the following:

A Kingdom Divided

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

10 January 2024 ( update | poll ) | As Kourend Favour has been removed, the quest no longer requires it to start. Additionally, the Hosidius favour certificate is no longer rewarded. Completion of the quest now unlocks the ability to recolour a graceful outfit to the colours of Hosidius .

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Examining one of the skeletons in the snake room reads "I don't understand, why didn't he go back to Lumby?", a reference to how when players die they are teleported back to Lumbridge.

v • t • e The Depths of Despair

NPCs | Lord Kandur Hosidius Chef Olivia Galana Artur Hosidius Sand Snake

Items | Varlamore envoy Royal accord of twill

Rewards | Lunch by the lancalliums

Locations | Hosidius Crabclaw Caves

Related | Quick guide Transcript