 | This miniquest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

The General's Shadow





Released | 12 February 2007 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Mahjarrat , #9

Developer(s) | Nancy J



The General's Shadow is a short miniquest that serves as a sequel to the Curse of the Empty Lord miniquest, and also continues the events of Fight Arena .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to the ghost of General Khazard roaming around the woods south-east of Rellekka . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Unknown edit

Requirements | Curse of the Empty Lord , for full ghostly robes Started Desert Treasure I , for the ring of visibility Fight Arena

Items required | 40 coins (70 coins if using boat to Karamja) Shantay pass (or access to fairy rings , code B I Q ) Ghostspeak amulet (Morytania legs will not work) All pieces of the Ghostly robes set A ring of visibility

Recommended | 60 Combat level Teleports to Falador ( Explorer's ring 2 or better), Karamja ( Tai bwo wannai teleport is a fast method), Al Kharid , the Grand Tree ( Necklace of passage ), Seers' Village and the Fishing Guild ( Skills necklace or Plain of mud sphere ). Dramen or Lunar staff or Slayer Ring to teleport near to General Khazard. Waterskins (A Circlet of water will not work since it needs to be equipped, and the full ghost robes set is required instead) A good weapon and armour Some food

Enemies to defeat | Ghost of Bouncer (level 160) (cannot use Prayer)

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the miniquest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the miniquest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

The Return of Khazard [ edit | edit source ]

Before you try to find General Khazard , you must be wearing the Ghostspeak amulet, all the ghostly robe pieces (hence Morytania Legs will not work), and the ring of visibility to start this quest. He can be found north of the Agility log north-west of the Sinclair Mansion . (Fairy ring C J R ) You have to find him as he cannot be seen on the minimap, and he wanders around a lot. His wander range seems to be within a triangle formed by the Rellekka house portal, the Agility shortcut to the Sinclair Mansion and the Swaying tree . He will not recognise you as the adventurer that killed him earlier, but he also will not trust you to set you on a task. To gain General Khazard's trust, go to the Seers' Village and talk to Sin Seer . She can be found upstairs in the house south-west of the cooking range . Bribe her with 40 coins, and she will give you a note as exchange for your troubles. Return to General Khazard, and talk to him again. He will want you to visit four of his scouts around the world to check up on the status.

The ghost scouts [ edit | edit source ]

You will now need to find the four scouts. One is in Tai Bwo Wannai, another is outside Falador, the third one is in the Kharidian Desert and the last one is outside the Gnome Stronghold. You can find them in any order. Make sure you wear the Ring of visibility to see them, the ghostspeak amulet to talk to them, and the Ghostly robes for them to recognise you as a messenger for General Khazard. It should be noted that the Scouts will not appear as yellow dots on your minimap, so pay careful attention to your screen to avoid passing them.

The Karamjan scout is near the Tai Bwo Wannai village. You can use a Tai bwo wannai teleport or use fairy ring C K R to reach the village fast. Look north-west of the Karamja Jungle mine , which is to the east of Tai Bwo Wannai and north of Shilo Village. His wander range may reach north up to the hardwood grove. Speak to him, he will tell you that the villagers recently left because of some curse caused by their gods, but they came back.

The Gnomish scout is to the south of the Gnome Stronghold . You can either teleport there using a Spirit tree and run south or by using a Necklace of passage , teleporting to the Outpost and running north. He could be right by the entrance, but he may be anywhere from near the orchard, circling around the Apple orchard , and up to where the Hobgoblins are camped. He will comment on Hazeel, The Plague, the events of Songs of the Elves, and Glough.

The Faladian scout is a little east of Falador , between the Falador east wall and the Draynor Manor west fence. A fast way to reach him is to use the an Explorer's ring 2 or better to cabbage port and run north. He will also not have anything useful to say, only that Count Draynor has been dispatched by an adventurer, but he will have to go inside to confirm this.

The Kharidian scout is a little south of the Shantay Pass . Go through the pass or use fairy ring B I Q and run east, and search the area around the rock formation directly south of the pass. ( Note: You may want to bring a waterskin to survive the desert heat but you won't be spending much time in the desert.) He will inform you that he followed someone called Lazim, and that Khazard may have two more players at the Ritual. He also comments on the prisoner of Jaldraocht having been freed, and that General Khazard used to live in the desert, although not by choice.

Scout locations

Karamjan scout location | Gnomish scout location | Faladian scout location | Kharidian scout location

When you are talking to the last of the four scouts, be sure not to end the conversation until you receive the message that you are to relay back to General Khazard . The message is "We of the Blood are still loyal. Pavlov is the messenger."

Bouncer returns! [ edit | edit source ]

Note: During the fight, you cannot use prayers of any sort, so be sure to bring some food. You do not need the ghostly robes, ghostspeak amulet, or ring of visibility for the fight ahead.

Warning: Leaving any item on the ground when Bouncer dies will move the items to another instance and make them unobtainable. Don't drop anything you're not willing to leave behind.

Return to General Khazard again, who will be grateful, still not recognise you and give you a severed leg . He will redirect you to your reward, which is in a cave north of Ardougne .

Make your way to the Goblin Cave , right by the Fishing Guild . The cave is known from the Dwarf Cannon , Land of the Goblins , and One Small Favour . Enter the cave, and head north. Take the first passage to the east, and you will arrive at a larger cavern. Do whatever you need to prepare, and enter the "crack" in the south wall of the cavern. Once inside, you will see a very short cutscene showing Bouncer and the player will complain about how Khazard DID recognise them and it all was a trap, then the fight will begin.

Now, you need to defeat the level 160 ghost of Bouncer . Use your preferred method to kill it. If you are around a combat level of 100, supplies will most likely be unnecessary. The ghost of Bouncer can hit up to 15, so make sure your hitpoints do not drop too low. You cannot use prayer during the fight. Keep hitting the ghost until its health drops to 10 hitpoints. Then, you will automatically throw the severed leg to distract the ghost. Once it is distracted, you will say "Away, darn spot!" and deliver a final blow, killing it.

If you're well armoured and have a good weapon, it is possible to defeat him without any food or potions, even if you have a relatively low combat level. Lower-level players may choose to lure Bouncer to the South-East corner to safespot. You can also hide in the south-west corner, where the ghost cannot hit you, and use poison to weaken it while hiding.

You will receive some Slayer experience and a new sword.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

The Shadow sword . This can be reclaimed from the ghost that will appear after Bouncer's defeat for free. 2,000 Slayer experience

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of The General's Shadow is required for the following:

Secrets of the North

Afterwards [ edit | edit source ]

Speaking to the General again after completing the miniquest will result in further dialogue. You will tell General Khazard, "Your dog attacked me. AGAIN!" General Khazard simply replies, "He was angry that you killed him. Quite natural really. Now get out of here you filthy skinbag. I will not waste my time on you."

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a miniquest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the miniquest.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Dogfight

 | Dogfight

The music which plays when battling the ghost of Bouncer.



Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

When Khazard hands you the severed leg, your player says: " Ugh, well, at least it's not another hand. " Then the General replies: " What, have you dealt with severed limbs before? " and the player replies: " It's a long story. " This is a reference to The Hand in the Sand quest. The final ghost you inform gives you a message to give to Khazard and adds on the statement: " The messenger is Pavlov, " probably referring to Pavlov 's dogs and Khazard's dog Bouncer . When throwing the severed leg in the final battle, you automatically say " Away, darn spot! " Besides being a play on the famous dog name "Spot", this is a reference to the classic line from Shakespeare's play Macbeth wherein Lady Macbeth utters the phrase "Out, damned spot!" when she is sleepwalking, and feeling guilty for helping to murder the Scottish king. However, she is referring to an imaginary stain of blood, not cursing a dog. The scouts will make references to quests that players have completed in their area. For example, if the player has completed the Vampyre Slayer quest then the Falador scout will talk about an adventurer killing Count Draynor and how he will have to verify whether this is true or not. The scouts are not human, as they repeatedly disparage humans during their conversations with the player. Their actual race is unknown.

v • t • e The General's Shadow

NPCs | General Khazard Sin Seer Scout (Tai Bwo Wannai) Scout (Tree Gnome Stronghold) Scout (Falador) Scout (Shantay Pass) Bouncer (ghost) Ghost

Items | Sin seer's note Severed leg Shadow sword

Related | Quick guide Transcript Dogfight

v • t • e Miniquests

 | Alfred Grimhand's Barcrawl Architectural Alliance (removed) Barbarian Training Bear Your Soul Curse of the Empty Lord Daddy's Home The Enchanted Key Enter the Abyss Family Pest The Frozen Door The General's Shadow His Faithful Servants Hopespear's Will In Search of Knowledge Into the Tombs Lair of Tarn Razorlor Mage Arena I Mage Arena II Skippy and the Mogres

Unofficial miniquests | Tutorial Island Natural history quiz Restoring the Sacred Bone Burner Knight Waves Training Grounds Rogue Trader Obtaining the ancient key