 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Tree Gnome Village (#31)





Released | 23 July 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Gnome quest series

Lead developer(s) | Tom W



Tree Gnome Village is the first quest in the Gnome quest series and focuses on the war between General Khazard 's army and the Tree Gnomes . During the quest, you need to aid the gnomes by retrieving stolen orbs.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Centre of the Tree Gnome Village Maze , talk to King Bolren . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | The tree gnomes are in trouble. General Khazard's forces are hunting them to extinction. Find your way through the hedge maze to the gnomes secret treetop village. Then help the gnomes fight Khazard and retrieve the orbs of protection.

Requirements | The ability to defeat a level 112 Khazard warlord

Items required | 6 normal logs (or an axe , obtainable during the quest by killing goblins in the Tree Gnome Village maze) Combat equipment Food

Recommended | 45 Combat level Stamina or energy potions

Enemies to defeat | Khazard warlord (level 112) (can be safespotted)

League notes | Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking the Fairy's Flight relic will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to King Bolren in the centre of the Tree Gnome Maze . He will say that three orbs have been stolen by Khazard troops. Agree to help him, and you will be escorted by Elkoy out of the maze.

The three trackers [ edit | edit source ]

North to the maze you will find a battlefield . Find Commander Montai and speak with him, he is wearing red clothing. He will ask for you to get 6 logs to repair their defences. Supply him with the logs (if you didn't have logs or an axe simply return to a bank, or alternatively, you can kill the goblins in the maze for one. However, this will likely take longer than going to the bank). Talk to Commander Montai again, and he'll tell you that three trackers that have been sent out to retrieve coordinates to fire the ballista have not returned. He asks you to find them.

You can find all three tracker gnomes at the buildings north to the battlefield . (look at the picture to the right to see the locations)

The first tracker is behind or on the side of the biggest building in the north-west. The second tracker is in the north-east building in a Khazard Prison Cell. The third tracker is roaming outside the south-west corner of the stronghold.

The first two trackers will give you the coordinates you need, which you'll automatically commit to memory. The third tracker, however, has been driven mad as a result of the chaos. Though most of what he says is garbage, he will give you a hint as to the number you need. You may have to do a bit of guesswork, though. For instance, "Less than my hands" would equal 1, where "More than my head less than my fingers" could be 2, "More than we but less than our feet" is 3, and lastly, "My legs and your legs" is 4. (It should not be any other possible number so try and remember what the third tracker said.)

Head back to the ballista (not the catapult , which is next to Montai), which is located in the south-west corner of the battlefield, here you want to choose the coordinate given from the third gnome tracker. If you miss, just try again until you get it.

The orbs [ edit | edit source ]

Once you get a hit, talk to Commander Montai once again then walk north to the stronghold (building where Gnome Tracker 1 was) and climb over the crumbled wall.

Note: There is a stall after climbing the crumbled wall where you are attacked without being able to heal; as a low-levelled player, this may be dangerous.

Once you climb the wall you will be attacked by a level 48 Khazard commander ; they have low Hitpoints (22) and should not be troublesome for most mid-levelled players (can be safespotted behind northern broken chair). You can skip defeating the commander if you wish and proceed to the western room and climb up the ladder.

When you climb the ladder you will once again be attacked by a level 48 Khazard commander , kill him or head to the chest and  find the orb of protection . When you have the orb, run back down the ladder and out of the nearby door.

Go the north-west maze entrance and talk to Elkoy , he will offer to lead you through the maze, accept his offer. push through the fence and talk to King Bolren .

The King will then tell you that the other two orbs of protection have been stolen by the Khazard Warlord .

Items needed: Weapons, armour and decent food.

Tip: Consider if you want to fight the warlord using ranged or head on.

Exit the village and start heading north past the stronghold where you found the first orb. When you hit the wall to West Ardougne , you want to go left and follow the wall until see two Khazard troopers and the level 112 Khazard warlord . Talk with him and he will challenge you to a fight and attack. Kill him to retrieve the other two orbs. Although he has a rather large health pool of 170 HP, he does not hit often if you are wearing decent armour. Players with Rune armour and at least a rune scimitar should have little trouble fighting him if they have a small amount of decent quality food ( lobster or better). Magic or ranged can also be used easily by continuing to move outside the range he can walk to, or by setting up a safespot.

The warlord is also prone to flinching . By attacking him and walking west outside of his wander radius, he will stop attacking you once you have reached far enough west. If you use a Ranged or Magic attack here, the warlord will start running back east. If you run towards him and start attacking him again inside his wander radius, he will come back to you. Run west again before he is able to reach you, and repeat the process. Do not take too long killing the warlord, or he will despawn and you will be forced to restart the fight. He does not despawn when flinching around a tree.

Safespot ranged: To safespot the warlord, start the fight and head west until the warlord de-aggros near the larger dead tree. Move a little south and attack the warlord with Ranged or Magic while outside his aggro range. This will force the warlord to walk backwards at an angle and get caught against the West Ardougne wall and the northern large dead tree. If done correctly, players can attack the warlord safely as long as they keep distant enough as to not aggro the warlord again.

Safespot melee: Melee players can also safespot him by repeatedly stepping in and out of his walking range. One good spot is beside the large skull to the south.

After killing him, pick up the orbs of protection . Go back to King Bolren and hand over the orbs to him. A cutscene ensues, where the gnomes are seen celebrating and holding a ceremony in which the orbs are returned to their places on the sacred spirit tree.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 11,450 Attack experience Use of spirit trees for transportation The Gnome amulet

Unlocks:

Khazard warlord accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Tree Gnome Village is required for the following:

Monkey Madness I The Path of Glouphrie Medium Western Provinces Diary Medium Varrock Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Tree Gnome Village

NPCs | King Bolren Spirit tree Elkoy Commander Montai Tracker gnomes One Two Three Enemies Khazard warlord Khazard commander |  | King Bolren Spirit tree Elkoy Commander Montai | Tracker gnomes | One Two Three | Enemies | Khazard warlord Khazard commander

 | King Bolren Spirit tree Elkoy Commander Montai

Tracker gnomes | One Two Three

Enemies | Khazard warlord Khazard commander

Items | Orb of protection Orbs of protection Gnome amulet

Locations | Tree Gnome Village Gnome Maze Battlefield

Miscellaneous | Quick guide Spirit tree Transcript