 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Tribal Totem (#25)





Released | 30 April 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Paul Gower



Tribal Totem is a quest that involves the retrieval of an artefact sacred to the Rantuki tribe of Karamja , which has been taken from them by the nobleman Lord Handelmort .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Kangai Mau at The Shrimp and Parrot restaurant in Brimhaven . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Very Short

Description | Lord Handelmort of Ardougne is a collector of exotic artefacts. A recent addition to his private collection is a strange looking totem from Karamja. The Rantuki tribe are not happy about the recent disappearance of their totem.

Requirements | 21 Thieving ( boostable ) ( not required to start )

Items required | None

Recommended | Fast travel to Ardougne ( Ardougne teleport or Ardougne cloak ) Fast travel to Brimhaven ( Brimhaven teleport , Teleport to House if your house is in Brimhaven, sail from Ardougne or take a charter ship . An amulet of glory will teleport you to Musa Point , Karamja , just East of Brimhaven.) 30gp (If you have not yet done the easy Karamja diary entry: "Travel to Ardougne via the port near Brimhaven".)

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Talk to Kangai Mau in Brimhaven , in the Shrimp and Parrot food shop. Consider using the ship from Ardougne to Brimhaven (30 coins each way). Kangai wants help to recover a tribal totem that was stolen from the Rantuki Tribe by Lord Handelmort . Say "I'm in search of adventure!" and then "Ok, I will get it back" to start the quest.

Go to Ardougne (take a ship at the docks or teleport). Handelmort lives in the mansion (not the castle) west of the main square in Ardougne. Go to the house and find the door securely locked. Talk to Horacio, the gardener, and ask him who he is. Ask him if he gardens around the back as well. You and Horacio will talk briefly about the security around the house. He will tell you that the combination to the door lock is Handelmort's middle name. You can find this in the Guide book in the Estate Agent's house south of the mansion: it is "Kurt."

The only way to the totem is by using a new teleporting invention from Wizard Cromperty . Cromperty is in the house north-east of the Ardougne market . Ask him about his new invention. The new invention will teleport players next to a teleport block, which looks very similar to a crate. Ask Cromperty to teleport you, in order to find the location of this teleport block. This happens to be in the Ardougne GPDT depot . After the teleport, the teleport block is located in a crate to the east of the teleport location.

Investigate the north-eastern crate to find an address label , addressed to Lord Handelmort. Use this label on the eastern crate intended for the Chamber of Invention of the Wizards' Tower to cause the teleport block to be delivered to Lord Handelmort's house instead.

Talk to a GPDT employee , and ask when the block will be delivered. Obviously, that happens very quickly after talking to them. Return to Cromperty.

Talk to Cromperty and ask to use his new teleport spell again. (Do not use the right-click 'Teleport' option, or you will be sent to the Rune essence mine ! ) Now, the teleport is to the new location of the block in Lord Handelmort's house.

Inside the house, go west through two doors. The second door is locked; the password is Lord Handelmort's middle name, which is K U R T . Enter the code using the left and right arrows (K=10 right, U=6 left, R=9 left, T=7 left). When the password is set, click enter to unlock the door. If the password K U R T does not work and it states "This combination is incorrect." try entering the letters very slowly and only clicking the right arrow, as the game may not register the letters if clicking too quickly .

Enter the door and investigate the stairs . Do not use the "climb-up" option first! If you try to climb-up the stairs instead of investigating it first, a trap will activate when using the stairs. The trapdoor leads to the Ardougne Sewers .

If you fall down the trap, go south-west and climb up the ladder; then, let Cromperty teleport you back inside the house. You will not have to enter the door-code again. If you investigate the stairs and a message appears ( You don't find anything interesting. ), it is because level 21 Thieving is required to progress through this part of the quest.

Climb up the stairs; you will avoid the trap. Go outside and enter the room east. Open the chest and search it to find the tribal totem. (You can use the drop technique to receive more.)

Go back to Brimhaven and return the totem to Kangai Mau, and complete the quest.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 1,775 Thieving experience 5 Swordfish

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Tribal Totem

NPCs | Kangai Mau Horacio Wizard Cromperty GPDT employee Lord Handelmort

Items | Address label Guide book Totem

Related | Gielinor Parcel Delivery Team Quick guide Rantuki Tribe Transcript