 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Troll Stronghold (#57)





Released | 24 August 2004 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Troll , #2

Lead developer(s) | Chris S



Troll Stronghold is a quest about gaining access to the Troll Stronghold beneath Mount Trollheim in order to rescue Godric , a soldier from Burthorpe . It is the second quest in the Troll Series .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Denulth in Burthorpe . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | The Imperial Guard raid was a failure, and Dunstan's son has been captured by the trolls!
Journey through Trollheim to the Troll Stronghold, and rescue him!

Requirements | Completion of Death Plateau 15 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) (47 is recommended) The ability to defeat a level 113 Troll General (can be safespotted )

Items required | Climbing boots or 12 coins to buy them

Recommended | 50 Combat level Weapon capable of safespotting ( Ranged , Magic , or a Halberd ) Armour and some food 43 Prayer for Protect from Melee At least 30 Thieving ( boostable ) to prevent a fight with two level 71 guards (higher levels are recommended for higher chance of success) Games necklace for Burthorpe teleports Stamina or energy potions

Enemies to defeat | Dad (level 101) (can be safespotted) Troll General (level 113) (can be safespotted) Berry and Twig (both level 71) (can be safespotted) Only if you have less than 30 Thieving or fail to pickpocket them (can be safespotted)

League notes | Unlocking Asgarnia ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Bring all the items needed before starting the quest as there is no nearby bank once you take the shortcut behind Tenzing 's house.

Start this quest by speaking with Denulth in Burthorpe located south-east of the Warriors' Guild in the tent (South of the Burthorpe teleport from the games necklace ) about the combination for the equipment room. Tell him that you will help him out and find Godric . After talking to Denulth, follow the path north-west, then going south-west when you reach the injured soldier , and reach Tenzing's house. Tenzing sells climbing boots for 12 coins each if you don't have them. Climb over the stile behind the house to begin the journey up the mountain. Follow the path until you see some rocks to the north. Put your boots on and climb over them. Then, go east and enter the arena. You will have to climb rocks twice more before reaching the arena.

Dad [ edit | edit source ]

A huge troll called Dad will prevent passage until you defeat him. At level 101 and using a tree to hit with Melee , he can hit up to 27 and send players flying, temporarily stunning them. Dad can be safespotted by standing next to the western gate, or standing where the audience is, and attacking with either Ranged or Magic (using a halberd is a good Melee alternative). Note that Dad has high Defence stats against Ranged and Magic, so it may take a little bit before you kill him. It is much easier to damage Dad using magic, compared to range.

When Dad is low on health, he will ask you to spare his life. Spare him and walk past to the gate north of the arena. Be careful as he may try to hit you still if you are in range. Note: If you don't spare his life, you can still continue the quest.

Enter the cave north of the arena, and go past the level 69 and 71 mountain trolls . Beyond this is Trollheim . There are level 68 thrower trolls who will range players here as they walk past the northern part of the mountain. You can avoid them entirely by taking a shortcut by climbing up the rocks, starting from the eastern region of the mountain and ending at the western side. Some of the shortcuts require 41, 43, 44, or 47 Agility . If you do not have at least 44 Agility, run around the mountain and activate Protect from Missiles around the northern bend to avoid taking too much damage from the trolls to get to the western portion. (Avoid the north-west portion going towards the God Wars Dungeon .)

Go west of Trollheim and north past several mountain trolls. Enter inside the Stronghold .

Inside the stronghold [ edit | edit source ]

Inside are some more level 69 and 71 mountain trolls . From the entrance, walk south until you see a door on the west wall. Enter and walk north, passing the non-aggressive troll, Kob . You will see several aggressive troll generals (level 113). They wield huge granite knives and mauls, which can hit up to 38. Kill one to get a prison key . Use Protect from Melee or safespot them with Ranged or Magic . The southern-most general can be safespotted easily by standing on either side of the desk in his room, or by standing next to the ladder and luring him out into the corridor. Like Dad , it may take a while if killing with Ranged or Magic as they have a high Defence against both.

Prison break [ edit | edit source ]

Once you have the key, go back south, down the stairs arriving in Burntmeat 's Kitchen, and then go to the very north end of the Stronghold . Enter the locked door with the prison key, and climb down again to reach a jail. Head west and south, and you'll see two sleeping prison guards called Berry and Twig . Both are level 71. If you have level 30 Thieving , pickpocket both to get Cell key 1 and Cell key 2 . Beware, if you fail to pickpocket one, they will still attack you! If not, kill them for the keys. You can safespot both trolls by standing inside one of the vacant cells. Free both Eadgar and Godric with the keys; then, exit the prison by going south to the secret exit.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Head south-east and climb over the rocks; you can use the minigame teleport or use a games necklace to return to Burthorpe . Go to the north-east corner of the city, and talk to Dunstan (look for the Smithing icon) for your reward.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point Law talisman (if you lose it, you can get another from Dunstan for 1,000 coins ) Law talismans can be obtained via Guardians of the Rift Ability to make law runes Access to Trollheim , the Troll Stronghold and the Law Altar Ability to access the God Wars Dungeon (though it can be accessed without the quest via the Ghommal's Hilt teleport)

Unlocks:

Dad accessible in the Nightmare Zone

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Troll Stronghold is required for the following:

Desert Treasure I Devious Minds Eadgar's Ruse Monkey Madness II Troll Romance 15 Agility and defeating Dad are prerequisites for entry to the God Wars Dungeon (without Ghommals Hilt ).

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

v • t • e Troll Stronghold

NPCs | Humans Denulth Godric Eadgar Dunstan Tenzing Burthorpe Imperial Guard Trolls Dad Troll general Troll spectator Twig Berry | Humans | Denulth Godric Eadgar Dunstan Tenzing Burthorpe Imperial Guard | Trolls | Dad Troll general Troll spectator Twig Berry

Humans | Denulth Godric Eadgar Dunstan Tenzing Burthorpe Imperial Guard

Trolls | Dad Troll general Troll spectator Twig Berry

Items | Prison key Cell key 1 Cell key 2

Reward | Law talisman

Locations | Troll Stronghold

Music | Contest Expedition Sojourn

Related | Quick guide