 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Underground Pass (#42)





Released | 3 March 2003 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | Elf , #3

Lead developer(s) | Tom W



Underground Pass is the third quest in the Elf quest series , and explores an extensive and perilous dungeon to the west of Ardougne . You must venture through the pass at the request of King Lathas , in order to help him destroy his corrupted brother Tyras .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to King Lathas on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] of Ardougne Castle . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Long

Description | There are rumours of a secret passageway that can be used to get to the other side of the mountains west of Ardougne. Now it's just a matter of finding it.

Requirements | 25 Ranged ( boostable ) Completion of the following quests: Biohazard Plague City

Items required | Rope (2 recommended) Bow 1-5 arrows (only non-poisoned arrows with metal arrowtips will work. Craw's bow does not work. Crossbows and bolts will not work. Broad arrows,  Ogre arrows, and Ice arrows will also not work.) Spade Bucket (obtainable during quest) Tinderbox (obtainable during quest)

Recommended | Plank (obtainable during quest) 60 Combat level 50+ Agility to reduce the risk of failing obstacles. 50 Thieving for a helpful shortcut . Weapon or combat spells . Using the bow is recommended if you need to save inventory space. Armour or 43 Prayer for Protect from Melee . Minimising weight may be beneficial for some agility obstacles. Lots of food to survive traps and monsters. Taking a few Summer Pies is highly recommended if under 60 Agility , as eating these heals 22 in two bites and boosts your agility level by 5 per bite. Alternatively, Saradomin brews or super restores to reduce weight. Coins to buy food from Kamen (75 coins each time for food that heals a total of 28 hitpoints). Bones to peaches magic tablets (as there are weak mobs that can be killed for bones when you need food) West Ardougne Teleport to quickly access the Underground Pass (dungeon) entrance. Level 79 combat will make Blessed spiders non-aggressive, which saves some time while killing Kalrag . Stamina or energy potions 2+ Agility potions if not taking summer pies (for players with a low Agility level). Telekinetic Grab runes for the Amulet of othanian Any instant teleportation method if you need to leave the dungeon

Enemies to defeat | 3 demons Doomion , Othainian , and Holthion (level 91) (easily safespottable ) 3 Paladins (level 62) (easily safespottable ) Kalrag (level 89) ( safespottable ) (won't hit with Protect from Melee ) Disciple of Iban (level 13)

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Tirannwn ✓ will auto-complete the quest The quest is otherwise not completable. Kandarin ✓ is required to start the quest, but the Underground Pass itself requires Tirannwn ✓ to be unlocked.

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

This quest relies heavily on your Agility skill, often making you complete a number of obstacles in succession. In most cases, failing any of the obstacles in an area will send you back to the beginning of the area, which can be quite frustrating, especially if your Agility is low. Many of the obstacles are harder to traverse if the player has a high equipment load. As the risk of all enemies besides the final encounter may be mitigated via safe-spotting or Protect from Melee, players should strike a balance between equipping Weight-reducing clothing and protective armour.

Many of the traps in the dungeon damage you based on your current health. This means that by keeping your health relatively low, you will have to use less food through the dungeon than you would if you were to eat to full Hitpoints each time you get damaged.

The Pass to the Tyrant [ edit | edit source ]

To begin, talk to King Lathas on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] floor of Ardougne Castle . He'll remind you about the Underground Pass and that it is the only way to reach the western lands in order to stop his corrupted brother King Tyras . Unfortunately, the evil Iban , who claims to be the son of Zamorak , and his cultists have moved in. He'll ask you to check in with his head tracker Koftik who is waiting for you just outside the entrance to the Underground Pass. Your mission is to find a way to the other side of the dangerous pass and report back.

This time, you'll be allowed to go right through the front gates to West Ardougne , so head through and walk all the way west through the city until you find the cave entrance with Koftik standing outside. Talk to him, and he'll explain more about the Pass. It is unlike other caves, being possessed of a corrupting darkness that breaks the will of men. He tells of the proud adventurer Randas , who apparently heard the voice of Zamorak himself inside the cave, telling him how to achieve his greatest goals. Nobody has heard of him since. Koftik instructs you to meet him next to the bridge further inside.

Getting in and across the bridge [ edit | edit source ]

When you walk inside (#1) , you'll see three paths branching off in different directions. ( Warning : Do not take the middle path ; the swamp will drag you down and send you tumbling down a hillside forcing you to crawl back up.) Instead, take the northern most path. Climb over a series of rocks around the swamp and get to where Koftik is standing next to a fire (#2) . There is a stone tablet near the beginning. It contains an eerie text that you may read if you wish. Several more tablets will be encountered later on, written to celebrate Iban and his supposed heritage.

Talk to him, and he'll tell you it looks like there have been others in the cave already. If you want, Koftik also shows you an excerpt of the diary of Randas that he found lying around. He'll give you an oily cloth from the remains of a camp and tell you he found charred arrows as well. If you later need another one, you can search the nearby pile of abandoned equipment to get more. Use the oily cloth on an arrow, and then use the result on the fire to get a fire arrow . You can stack several of these before lighting them in case you miss. If you get the message "I can't reach that!", then move closer to the gate or adjust your position along it.

Go north to get to the small area (#3) . Look across the subterranean river, and you can see where the guide rope holds up the bridge. Fire your lit arrow at the rope. If you succeed, the bridge will drop, and you'll automatically walk across the bridge.

Do not pull the lever right after the bridge (it will send you back to the beginning).

Before you continue, take the plank north of the lever (#4).

Cave entrance from West Ardougne Koftik Fire your lit arrow here! Plank spawn by blessed spiders Use a rope on the overhang to cross the pit. Grid Furnace Wall traps Well to the second area | B - Giant bats G - Goblins O - Ogres S - Blessed spiders Z - Zombies

The pit [ edit | edit source ]

Walk south from where you picked up the plank. Do not walk into the swampy area filled with blessed spiders and instead head back east (#5) . You will come up on a pit and a small water crossing with a rope swing. Use your rope on the rock hanging from the ceiling above the dark pit to swing across .

If you fail and fall , you will fall into a rocky pit and lose your rope. Follow the path on your mini-map climbing over rocks when needed to get to the muddy rock pile. You'll be placed at the very beginning of Underground Pass . You will need another rope to attempt the obstacle again. You can purchase ropes at the general store in Ardougne.

The grid [ edit | edit source ]

Continue down the path going east and then south. Eventually, you'll see Koftik standing in front of a grid (#6) . He is being affected by the voices you have been hearing in your chat, talking about the paths of righteous men and their being beset by the iniquities of the selfish and the tyrannies of the evil. He says you have to pick your own path next.

Many of the tiles will drop you into a pit dealing 15 damage to your health . You'll need to use trial and error finding a safe path across. Once you've found a safe way across, remember it; you'll need it for Regicide . Pull the lever once you are across to lift the gate. The path is different for everyone. Not all grid paths are possible, you will never need to:

Walk backwards (to the east) Walk diagonally to another cell Walk north or south more than two cells on the same column Walk north or south on the middle column (just walk straight west across it)

The grid puzzle always does 15 damage upon falling into a pit. Keep this in mind while trying new squares. Should you die from falling, your items will stay in the pit. To retrieve what you lost then, you must intentionally step on a square that will drop you into the pit. Once you get across the grid, there is an altar in the next important room, so you can use Rapid Heal to save some food.

Remember or write down the path you used to get across. You have to come back through here *twice* during Regicide later; the correct path is permanent and unique to each player. (Your browser will remember the path saved in the grid below as long as you don't clear your browser cache).

It can be useful to keep track of the route you have to take using the following grid:

 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 



















































When crossed, pull the lever on south to open the gate.

The orbs and the well [ edit | edit source ]

To the north there is a furnace (#7) . For the moment it can be ignored, but remember where it is. If you forgot to pick up the plank by the Blessed Spiders earlier there is another one that spawns just north-east of this furnace.

Warning: If you use the obstacle pipe, it will cause you to go back to the rope swing with no return.

Head west, to a narrow corridor (#8) . Approach it carefully, as there are five traps (odd markings) in the wall. (There's two on the north side followed by three on the south side.) There are two ways of passing the traps.

The traps can be disarmed normally, with a chance to fail and be hit for 5 to 14 damage. Run through the traps one at a time, which hits a percentage of your current health, as low as 3. So keeping at above 10 hp should be safe.

Whichever method you choose, you will eventually arrive to an area with an altar (#9) (note: this is a good opportunity to activate the Rapid Heal prayer and leave it on until the orbs of light have been destroyed This will save on food which may be required later on) and a large, rather sinister-looking well in the centre. At this point you will be unable to climb down the well as a magical force prevents you from doing so whilst there is still light. Read the old journal lying by the well; it was written by Randas and describes how he had orbs of light blessed by Saradomin to keep the darkness at bay. You must destroy these orbs to proceed. To complete this profane task, there are four different paths branching off from this room:

Now that you have all four of the orbs, back track a little bit. Go back to where the furnace was (#7) (remembering to be careful of the traps in the wall). Use each of the orbs on the furnace to destroy them.

Make sure to top off your prayer if needed and head down the well (#9) descending another level. If you need food, search the crates to the west to receive two salmon and two meat pies .

The cages and the obstacle maze [ edit | edit source ]

Entrance from the first area via climbing down the well Dig by the mud patch with your spade . Narrow ledge Agility maze 50 Thieving shortcut to bypass the maze To the third area

There is some food in the crates right when you arrive down the well (#1) .

Head west through the cave, and you'll find yourself in an area with a few cages containing slaves guarded by goblins . You may enter the cells by picking their locks to talk to the slaves if you want ; their dialogue varies from pure gibberish to a friendly offer to cook you into soup. Pick the lock on the first one on the left (south-east). You'll notice that there's a rather odd-looking patch of ground at the back of it. Use your spade on this to dig through, and you'll find a hidden tunnel that will take you through to the other side (#2) . Do not drop your spade in case you fail the narrow ledge.

Edge across the narrow ledge (#3) , and you'll be near a maze of raised beams (#4) . However, you can skip this step with 50 Thieving as seen in the next paragraph . To get through it, you'll need to hop over a number of obstacles. If you fail, you need to climb back up one of the ramps nearby, often setting you back a few steps.

To get through the maze:

Take the first right. Then left. Then another left.

If you have 50 Thieving, go a little bit further south past the maze to a gate that you can pick the lock of (#5) . It completely bypasses the whole maze. Once through, head south to meet Koftik. He has clearly been corrupted by the voices to the point of insanity, although he claims the contrary himself. Squeeze through the pipe entrance to get into the next area (#6) .

The caged unicorn [ edit | edit source ]

Entrance from the second area Unicorn Sir Carl , Sir Harry , and Sir Jerro Well To the fourth area (Iban's Lair) | S - Skeletons Z - Zombies

In the next room, you'll find a group of skeletons and a unicorn in a cage (#2) .

You'll need its horn, but you can't get into the cage to get it. If you search the cage, you'll find a loose piece of railing . Note: If you already have a piece of railing in your bank, you're unable to obtain a new one. Take this, and head (south) up the path above where the cage is you'll find a large boulder. ( Before moving the boulder, make sure that you have no items on the ground. As after the boulder is moved they will be gone! ) Use the loose railing to pry it loose, and crush the unicorn. Now, you can go back down and retrieve the unicorn horn by searching the smashed cage . Proceed through the tunnel entrance and head north.

The paladins [ edit | edit source ]

Heading north through the cave, you'll come to a small group of Paladins named Sir Carl , Sir Jerro , and Sir Harry , who have made a sort of camp (#3) , having been tasked by Lathas with the same mission but unable to open the locked Doors of Iban. Upon speaking with any of them, they will offer you some nourishment in the form of two loaves of bread , two meat pies , a bowl of stew , a prayer potion (2) and an attack potion (2) . Afterwards, they suggest that you leave and let them finish the task.

Unluckily for the paladins, you need the paladin's badges that they carry and the only way to get them is to slaughter them. They're all level 62 and attack with melee. It is possible to safespot the paladins by attacking them and running west where they will not follow you.

Head west keeping your eyes out for the traps there. Again, you can foil them by placing the plank on them. Keep going west to where there's another well (#4) . Its inscription says that the doors of Iban will not open as long as there is a beating, good heart present and the well demands the offering of such a creature's remains and three crests of the blessed. Use the unicorn horn and the three badges on the well to open the large doors (#5) conform its inscription.
Once you have all three badges (red, blue, and green), deposit them into the well along with the horn. The doors of Iban will open.

The dwarves [ edit | edit source ]

Now, you're in the largest area of the Underground Pass (and indeed all of RuneScape ) and one of the most frustrating. Around all edges of the area is a rock ledge to walk on. The middle is a large, open area with a maze of walkways, most of which are broken. If you try to jump across them, sometimes, you will fall and end up taking big damage when you hit the ground below, as well as being in a large area filled with Soulless . Keep in mind that this area has been known to take well over an hour to clear, so be persistent.

The doors lead to a massive cave and Koftik will appear again, declaring the place his home and Iban to be his friend. He mentions some 'foolish dwarves ' that have taken up residence to the south and resist Iban. He tells you to slay them in his lord's name like you did the paladins.

For now, ignore the walkways, though do take note of the locations where you can get onto them. Walk down along the east wall and then west until you find a cave into which you can descend. Descend down into the cave. (Map of bottom level is found in next section.)

There are three dwarves named Niloof , Klank , and Kamen in a small fenced area with two buildings just to the west. Niloof will be surprised to see a human and explain their group consists of miners unaware of the evil of Iban. The son of Zamorak has corrupted the only exit into the western lands, the Well of Voyage , instead using it to dispose of his victims. You suggest to kill Iban, to which Niloof replies to seek out Iban's only confidante and guide, Kardia , the witch who lives on the platforms above. He then gives you two more pies and a pizza.

Klank explains the dwarves are the only ones not corrupted by Iban's voice. All humans have become soulless slaves of his, or possibly of Zamorak's himself. Those who resist are locked in cages until they are broken. He gives you a pair of sturdy gauntlets (called Klank's gauntlets) to protect against the soulless' vicious bite.

Finally, Kamen is a little fried and asks you if you want some of his brew which 'will blow your head off' and advises to keep it away from naked flames. If you decline , he will offer to sell you some bread , stew and a meat pie for 75 coins; if you accept , your Agility level will temporarily decrease by 4; he will then still offer the food for 75 coins.

There's a tinderbox spawn in the smaller eastern building, if you didn't bring one.

The ritual of Iban [ edit | edit source ]

Go back through the cave staircase used to enter the area, south-east of the dwarves. Go north-east until you reach the first walkway that can be used. Walk along it, jump the gap, and take the first turn south to find Kardia's house (the witch).

Attempt to open the door, or search the window, and you'll hear her talking to herself about her missing cat . Head north, take the western path, hop across the gap and then take the north branch of the path. Follow it until you find the cat. It will be a yellow dot on your minimap. Grab it and go back to the witch's house again (if you drop the cat, you'll have to wait for a moment before you can grab it back).

Knock on the door. You'll automatically hide behind the corner while the witch gets her cat. While she's distracted, open the door and sneak into her house to search the chest. You'll get a stat restore potion , a super attack potion , the history of iban and a doll of iban .

Note: This paragraph is just context. Although not absolutely necessary for progressing the quest, reading the book will reveal some background on Kardia 's revival of the insatiably ambitious Black Knight Iban after he had been slain by the White Knights in their Dawn Ascent operation. She vowed to resurrect him as undead so that he could fulfil his ambitions to create an army of soulless zombies. She explains how she brought his body to a tomb in the caverns beneath the Pass and smeared some of his flesh onto a doll bearing his likeness. She then claimed some of the blood of Kalrag , a giant spider who had oft feasted on humans, and smeared some onto the doll as well. To recreate Iban's shadow, she performed an ancient and dark ritual known as Incantia: she summoned three demons, now bound as the keepers of Iban's shadow. Finally, to give Iban conscience, she took an innocent white dove and strangled it. She gave the corpse to a servant and locked him in a cage on the northern platforms. She finishes by noting that the same ritual would also undo Iban and destroy him. You now need to collect four elements of Iban to imbue the doll.

Either fall or head back south to the cave to get back downstairs. Iban's tomb is in the south-eastern corner but cannot be opened. If you try to do so, a yellow claw will hit you for 10 damage. A nearby stone tablet says that only by burning the tomb will the corpse become available.

“ | Only as flesh becomes ash, and wood becomes dust, ...will Iban's corpse embrace nature's eternal lust. | ”

Enter the larger building in the dwarven camp and pick up the bucket in the corner. Also speak to Niloof about the doll and the witch; he will confirm that you need to reverse Kardia's ritual and then throw the doll into the Well of the Damned. Next, go into the smaller building and pick up the tinderbox. Use the bucket on the barrel inside of the smaller house to get some of the dwarf brew that Kamen was offering you earlier.

Take this and head back to Iban's tomb. Dump the bucket of alcohol on top of the tomb (only needs to be done once) and light it up with your tinderbox either by using it on the tomb or via the search option. After you're done watching it burn, a pile of Iban's ashes will appear in your inventory (or drop on the ground). The ashes will automatically be used on the doll (unless the doll had been dropped, in which case you must do it manually).

Head straight north from the tomb, and keep going until you reach a corridor full of blessed spiders (these have a max hit of 4). Run to the end of the corridor until you find a giant level 89 spider named Kalrag . Kalrag can hit somewhat hard (a max hit of 9), but is fairly inaccurate if you are wearing melee armour. The biggest challenge of this fight is often the swarm of spiders which can keep you from attacking Kalrag. If you're below 79 combat, it can be fairly difficult to finally get her alone to begin attacking, which is why it's advisable to run to the back of the corridor and start attacking her before the others get to you. Kalrag can be safespotted by luring her to the far north of the room, then running to the spot between the two skeletons (shown to the right).

When you defeat her, you'll automatically soak up the blood with your doll . The spiders nearby will attack you and can pile up on you despite not being a multi-combat area . They will interrupt the fight with Kalrag if they are attacking you. Once you kill Kalrag, you will be stunned for about two seconds (and can be attacked by all spiders at once) so heal up before dealing the finishing blow. Using Protect from Melee is advisable. While stunned, you will automatically smear Iban's blood onto the doll.

Low levels might have a problem with Kalrag as the blessed spiders will keep attacking, preventing the player from attacking her. This can be avoided by running alongside Kalrag, killing blessed spiders in the hope that Kalrag will be the next to aggro on you. You can also try trapping Kalrag in the north-western corner of the cave, to make sure she's next to you after you kill a spider. Kalrag can be killed without it hitting you if you aggro it with a ranged attack and run past the stalagmites on the west side of the corridor, as its movement range ends a tile before those stalagmites it will back up until you have to move forward to keep attacking. Repeat until dead.

Kalrag can be safespotted with range/magic on the very northern wall. 1 tile east of the skeleton.

Once you have killed Kalrag, exit the corridor.

To get Iban's shadow , you need to kill three level 91 demons named Doomion , Othainian , and Holthion . Head north and then west from the witch's house, and take the first left (south) all the way down until you reach where the demons are.

Kill each one any way you like and pick up the amulet of doomion , amulet of othanian [sic], and amulet of holthion that they drop respectively. If you are a low level or are using Ranged or Magic , there are safespots for killing the demons by standing on the narrow pathways. You can also kill Othainian & Holthion from the walkway on the edge of the map.

Note: After obtaining the demon's respective amulet, that same demon will no longer be aggressive towards you nor is it attackable. However, using manual magic cast still allows you to attack the demon without it being able to reciprocate—possibly an oversight from Jagex.

The last demon, Othainian , may be difficult to safespot; lure him to the southern edge of the island, then run back to the narrow pathway and he will be stuck on the corner or safespot the demon from Doomion's isle. If using a halberd, you can safespot Othainian by staying on the narrow pathway segment that you land on after jumping over the narrow pathway. If you did not bring telegrab runes, it is strongly recommended to cross the bridge to his island before killing him, so that you do not have to kill him again if you fail the obstacle.

Once you have all three of them, head just north of where Doomion was to the chest. Opening it will remove the amulets from your inventory and give you Iban's shadow. It will automatically be used on the doll .

Note: After using Iban's shadow on the doll, the demons are no longer aggressive nor are they attackable (unless using manual magic cast, which they won't retaliate to).

In the northern part of the upper area there will be several cages with half-soulless in them, one of whom has the remains of the dove. Head northwards along the western cave wall ledge, and jump across the first broken bridge on the right. From here, go north at the junction, then east at the next junction, then north, and finally west to a cage on a dead-end platform (shown circled on the map above). Equip Klank's gauntlets if you haven't already and search the cage for Iban's dove . Sometimes there is no popup telling you that you found it, so keep an eye on your chatbox. The half-soulless will exclaim 'Kuluf Ali Monopiate'.

Note: The remains will automatically be smeared onto the doll when searching the correct cage.

Killing Iban [ edit | edit source ]

Now, to finally destroy Iban and bring an end to this quest. You'll need to jump your way to Iban's temple in the centre of the area(If you are having trouble with the jumps due to low agility levels, starting from the west side near the half souless has the least amount of jumps, albeit a lot longer). Once you're there, kill a disciple of Iban and take his Zamorak monk robes . (Collecting a few of the robe bottoms is highly lucrative!)

(Should you die attempting to dispose of the doll, you will have to run through the entirety of the dungeon again, so be sure to bring the items required with you.)

Enter the temple wearing both upper and lower Zamorak robes. Iban will recognise the doll and declare he cannot die, as well as that you are Zamorak's slave regardless. He then begins to attack you, represented by red spikes that will haphazardly appear near the entrance for several ticks. These spikes rapidly deal around 5 to 8 damage each and can't be blocked with prayers. They also stun you and teleport you back to the entrance, so make sure you run in with plenty of health. Running directly to the well should be fairly easy with one or two food items.

A method to never get hit by Iban's spell is to enter the temple, immediately exit and then walk back inside, which should roughly coincide with the end of his first round of attacks. Then quickly run to the well in the centre of the room and use the doll before he launches his next volley.

Use the doll on the Well of the Damned in the centre of the room. You may have to do this a few times, as his attacks may interrupt you. When you do manage to get the doll into the well, Iban will be taken by darkness and destroyed utterly. The temple will begin to collapse and you drop into a cavern below. You also receive Iban's staff , which the man had dropped.

Note: You can use the doll on the well while in dialogue. It's possible to reach the well before being attacked, taking 0 damage.

Make your way through this cave to meet Koftik , who will be sane again and suffer from memory loss with Iban's voice suddenly gone. You inform him that you have slain Iban and vaguely remember some of your actions such as crushing the unicorn and killing the paladins, unsure whether it really happened. He will lead you back to the entrance of the Pass.

Leave the cavern and return to Ardougne to tell King Lathas of your success to finish the quest. He will thank you for your service and enquire whether the passage to the west is now clear. Upon being told that the temple was destroyed, he says he will send his mages to clear the well so that you can stop his brother Tyras, who he reminds you joined forces with the Dark Lord on his expedition after being corrupted by the Chalice of Eternity .

Note: For souvenir collectors, all quest items will be removed upon completing the quest . In order to keep the desired quest item(s), it/they should be dropped before speaking to King Lathas to complete the quest.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

5 Quest points 3,000 Agility experience 3,000 Attack experience Iban's staff and use of the Iban Blast spell. Klank's gauntlets

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Underground Pass is required for the following:

Legends' Quest Regicide Freeing Sir Amik Varze Ardougne Achievement Diary - Medium

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

25 July 2019 ( update ) | Several changes are made to the Underground Pass quest, along with the release of Song of the Elves . These changes include, but are not limited to: The entire Underground Pass quest now takes place in an instance . Koftik no longer appears in multiple locations inside the dungeon, during the quest. Instead, he moves along with the player's progress, and a backpack containing oily cloth is left behind near the rope bridge instead. The three paladins ( Sir Carl , Sir Harry , and Sir Jerro ) no longer respawn after their badges have been dropped in the well. Similarly, one cannot get duplicates of the orbs of light. The patches of swamp found further in the dungeon are removed. Previously, there were swamps located near the blessed spiders just across the rope bridge, as well as inside the Thieving shortcut area in the first area with Agility obstacles. Iban's shadow , ashes and dove are now automatically applied to the doll of iban when obtained with the doll in the inventory. Iban has some dialogue when you first enter his temple and now only attacks when there is someone inside. Kamen's homemade brew no longer damages the player between 3-5 Hitpoints .

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

Prior to being fixed, mithril seeds could be exploited to cross the grid puzzle effortlessly. When automatically moving west one space each time a flower is planted, the player will safely move across the grid without triggering the trap. This was patched in 2016; however, a new workaround arose where you could place the seeds after stepping onto the first tile, meaning there was a chance of failure. This method was also patched, in 2018. Theoretically, it was also possible to burn logs to cross the grid in the same fashion; however, doing so would have required too much inventory space to be effective. If you speak to Koftik at the mesh grid, he will say " The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men ". This is the beginning of the misquoted Bible verse "Ezekiel 25:17" that Samuel L. Jackson's character, Jules, recites in the movie Pulp Fiction . He may also say " The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result ", a quote often incorrectly attributed to Albert Einstein . Before when attempting to climb down the well, found in the room with the orbs of light and a Chaos Altar, the player would take 10 damage. However, if the player was below 10 hp they would lose the remaining hitpoints minus 1. This has since been removed. You can use High Level Alchemy on the witch's cat. In RuneScape Classic , the player would periodically receive strange and threatening messages from Iban in red text while in the Underground Passage. When the quest was converted for RuneScape 2 , these messages lost their ominous red colouring, and would appear as standard game messages instead. The messages would remain that way in Old School RuneScape up until the numerous adjustments introduced alongside the Song of the Elves , which saw the whispers of Iban being attributed to a "Mysterious Voice" uttering blue lines of dialogue in the chatbox, not unlike how public player messages are rendered. The messages appear with a randomised delay after crossing specific tiles, ranging from 0 to 9 seconds. [1] These whispers are also heard by other NPCs dwelling inside the Pass, such as Koftik. [2] After Iban has been slain however, the voices fall silent. [3]

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Underground Pass

NPCs | King Lathas Koftik Niloof Klank Kamen Kardia Slave Unicorn Enemies Blessed giant rat Blessed spider Disciple of Iban Half-soulless Iban Soulless Guardians Doomion Holthion Othainian Kalrag Paladins Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro |  | King Lathas Koftik Niloof Klank Kamen Kardia Slave Unicorn | Enemies | Blessed giant rat Blessed spider Disciple of Iban Half-soulless Iban Soulless Guardians Doomion Holthion Othainian Kalrag Paladins Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro |  | Blessed giant rat Blessed spider Disciple of Iban Half-soulless Iban Soulless | Guardians | Doomion Holthion Othainian Kalrag | Paladins | Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro

 | King Lathas Koftik Niloof Klank Kamen Kardia Slave Unicorn

Enemies | Blessed giant rat Blessed spider Disciple of Iban Half-soulless Iban Soulless Guardians Doomion Holthion Othainian Kalrag Paladins Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro |  | Blessed giant rat Blessed spider Disciple of Iban Half-soulless Iban Soulless | Guardians | Doomion Holthion Othainian Kalrag | Paladins | Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro

 | Blessed giant rat Blessed spider Disciple of Iban Half-soulless Iban Soulless

Guardians | Doomion Holthion Othainian Kalrag

Paladins | Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro

Items | Oily cloth Dwarf brew Fire arrows History of iban Old journal Orb of light Piece of railing Unicorn horn Witch's cat Zamorak monk robes Top Bottom Iban's Resurrection Iban's ashes Iban's dove Iban's shadow Doll of iban Guardian amulets Doomion Holthion Othanian Paladin's badges Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro Rewards Iban's staff Klank's gauntlets |  | Oily cloth Dwarf brew Fire arrows History of iban Old journal Orb of light Piece of railing Unicorn horn Witch's cat | Zamorak monk robes | Top Bottom | Iban's Resurrection | Iban's ashes Iban's dove Iban's shadow Doll of iban | Guardian amulets | Doomion Holthion Othanian | Paladin's badges | Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro | Rewards | Iban's staff Klank's gauntlets

 | Oily cloth Dwarf brew Fire arrows History of iban Old journal Orb of light Piece of railing Unicorn horn Witch's cat

Zamorak monk robes | Top Bottom

Iban's Resurrection | Iban's ashes Iban's dove Iban's shadow Doll of iban

Guardian amulets | Doomion Holthion Othanian

Paladin's badges | Sir Carl Sir Harry Sir Jerro

Rewards | Iban's staff Klank's gauntlets

Scenery | Iban's Throne Well of Voyage Stone tablet

Locations | East Ardougne Underground Pass Iban's Temple West Ardougne

Music | Cursed Expecting Iban Intrepid Moody Underground Pass

Related | Quick guide Flames of Zamorak The Diary of Randas Randas