 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Watchtower (#45)





Released | 7 May 2003 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Ian T



Watchtower is a quest about the conflict between Yanille and the ogres of Gu'Tanoth . It involves the restoration of the city's Watchtower so that it may defend itself against an ogre attack.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Begin the quest by speaking to Watchtower Wizard north of Yanille in the Watchtower . You must climb the trellis on the north side of the tower to get up there for the first time. Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | The Wizards of the Yanille Watch Tower have been reporting increased ogre sightings recently. Use a wide variety of your skills to help the wizards recover their stolen power crystals and stop the advance of the ogre hordes!

Requirements | 14 Magic ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 15 Thieving ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 25 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) [1] 14 Herblore ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 40 Mining ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) The ability to defeat a level 68 Ogre and run past level 111 Blue dragons

Items required | 20 coins Gold bar Tinderbox Death rune (can be obtained during the quest) Pickaxe Dragon bones 2 ropes (2nd rope can be obtained during the quest) Guam potion (unf) or guam leaf and a vial of water (vial of water can be obtained during quest) Any light source (can be obtained during the quest) Skavid map (can be obtained during the quest) Pestle and mortar (can be obtained during the quest) Bat bones (can be obtained during the quest, a knife or slash weapon is needed, grinding the bat bones before starting the quest to leave the pestle and mortar in the bank is also an option) Jangerberries (can be obtained during the quest)

Recommended | 35 Combat level Any instant teleportation method if you need to leave the Ogre cave Weapon , armour and some food Stamina or energy potions Anti-dragon / Dragonfire shield and antifire potions or a super antifire to greatly reduce the damage taken from the blue dragons in the Ogre Enclave (using both or just super antifire completely negates dragonfire damage) 43 Prayer for protection prayers Fast travel to the Watchtower and the Ogre Enclave ( Yanille teleport , Teleport to house if your house is in Yanille, Nightmare Zone or Castle Wars minigame teleport, Ring of Dueling to Castle Wars or Fairy Rings to C I Q ) 39 Agility , 21 Ranged , 38 Strength , a crossbow and a mith grapple for the shortcut over Yanille 's southern wall

Enemies to defeat | Gorad (level 68) (safespottable) Giant bat (level 27) (only if bat bones are needed)

League notes | Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

There is also a fairy ring located north-west of Yanille (code: C I Q ). From the ring, enter Yanille, and use the shortcut by the farming patch (requires 16 Agility ).

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Armour , weapon ( slashing weapon recommended), food , 2 ropes , and dragon bones .

Make your way to the Watchtower just  north of the northwest corner of Yanille . Climb the trellis on the northern side of the tower. Then, climb up the ladder and talk to the Watchtower wizard . He will explain that the Watchtower is not working because the spell created does not keep out ogres . He tells you that the crystals that make the spell have been stolen! After starting, you will be asked to search the grounds of the Watchtower. You can now use the tower's main ladder, but using the trellis avoids a conversation with the guard and gives you 31 Agility experience each time. Search the far north-west bush for some fingernails . It is possible to find some other things in other bushes ( old robe , unusual armour , damaged dagger , tattered eye patch ), but these items serve no purpose other than as a red herring.

Go back to the Watchtower wizard, and show him the fingernails. The wizard will tell you that the fingernails belong to Skavids , the servants of the ogres, and that they have stolen the four power crystals that protect the city from ogres. Your job is to recover the crystals.

The first thing you need to do is gain access to the city. In order to enter, you'll need to help out three ogre tribe chieftains to get pieces of an ogre relic . This can then be given to the gate guards to prove that you're a friend to the ogres.

Og [ edit | edit source ]

Note: The Ogres near all three camps are non-aggressive. First, go through the city of Yanille using the agility shortcut or the west entrance. Stop at the bank to grab your armour , food , two ropes , and one set of dragon bones if you haven't already. Head out the west gate and turn north-west to find a tribe of ogres. Note that, as a rule of thumb, any ogre that wields a mace is non-aggressive . Talk to Og to learn that his nemesis, Toban , stole a bar of gold from him. Your job is to get it back. Og will give you a key to Toban's chest. Keep this key with you for later.

Grew [ edit | edit source ]

Head south of Og 's tribe. You should see an island with an ogre tribe on it and some jangerberries . Find the long-branched tree on the west shore. Use one rope on the branch of the tree (not the tree itself) to swing to the island. Note that you will lose the rope. Take some jangerberries because you'll need them later in the quest. Talk to Grew . Grew will tell you to teach his enemy, Gorad , a lesson by knocking one of his teeth out (make sure that you have room in your inventory for this tooth, or you will have to kill him again).

Toban, and Gorad's tooth [ edit | edit source ]

The next stop is a third tribe of ogres. Leave Grew's island using the tree with the rope swing on the north side.

Either enter the Skavid caves south of Grew's island 4 times without the Skavid map , or head south-east to go around Gu'Tanoth .

You will see a broken bridge leading to a small island. The next tribe you will need to meet is on that island, but the bridge is out so you will need to find another way across. Keep going a little bit south of the bridge.

Then, turn west and continue along the southern edge of Gu'tanoth until you reach a hole surrounded by rocks. Pick up the death rune a ways south of this hole if you need it. The hole is west-north-west of the gnome glider . (See map above).

Enter the hole to reach an island with Toban 's tribe on it. South of the ladder, you should find a level 68 chieftain called Gorad . Talk to him and tell him that you have come to knock his teeth out. He will attack you. Kill him to get a tooth . Keep the tooth for later. Gorad can be safespotted in the centre of the island for Ranged or Magic users.

Next, speak to Toban. He will ask you to give him the bones of a dragon to chew on. Give him your dragon bones (baby dragon bones do NOT work). Make sure not to bury them! Toban will give you the third piece of the relic in return.

Open Toban's chest on the island, and you will find Og 's stolen gold .

A rope spawns on the island (next to the roots south-west of the ladder) if you don't already have one for travelling back to Grew 's island.

Completing the relic [ edit | edit source ]

Leave the island via the ladder. Walk around the west side of the ogre city or use a ring of dueling or the Grouping teleport to Castle Wars , or use Fairy code CIQ , and walk back to Grew 's island (with the jangerberries ). Use your second rope on the tree. Talk to Grew to give him Gorad 's tooth . You will receive another piece of the relic in return for your deed. He will also give you the first crystal , the yellow crystal. Keep this for later. If you don't have jangerberries yet, pick some from the island before you leave . Then, leave the island using the rope swing and head north back to Og . Talk to him to give him his stolen gold bar . You will receive the final piece of the relic .

Once you have all three parts of the relic, take them to the Watchtower wizard to get them assembled. Head through Yanille , and use the agility shortcut if possible. While at the Watchtower, pick up a candle at the spawn on the ground level if you need a light source .

Access to Gu'Tanoth [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: 20 coins (27 coins if you need to buy a pestle and mortar and vial ), anti-dragon shield , a death rune , and the Ogre relic . Bring your gold bar , tinderbox , and light source as well to save a bank trip.

After you have the full relic, head back through Yanille and either use the southern grapple shortcut or get out directly from the west gate. Grab a Torch from Aleck's shop on the way through Yanille, if you don't have a light source for the caves later on.

Head south-east until you see a path leading up into Gu'Tanoth , then go south and follow the path up the hill. Alternatively, use the Skavid caves "transport system" 2 times without the Skavid Map .

At the split, take the north-west trail to the Ogre guards . Talk to them (with the Ogre relic in your inventory), and they will let you into the city (using your relic on them doesn't work, as "The ogre has not asked you for anything").

Once you're inside the city, go east and then south to the market. The ogres aren't aggressive, but watch out for the Ogre traders , who will attack if spoken to. There is also a non-aggressive merchant named Grud (labelled Ogre merchant) who will sell you Herblore supplies. Buy a pestle and mortar and vial (7 coins total) from him for later use if you do not already have them in your inventory. Find the southern stall in the market with food (grey cylinders) on it, and then steal a rock cake . Be careful with the cake as the left-click option eats it, dealing damage and forcing you to go steal another.

Go back on the main path to the west and follow it south. You'll find two more guards. Talk to one. Be careful of what you say, the guard will knock you out of the area if you mess up. Tell them you are a friend of the ogres (first option); they will then ask for some food from the market. Do not eat the rock cake! Use the rock cake on the guard to get by. Then, continue on until you find a broken bridge. Attempt to jump the gap in the bridge. (Find the "Jump-Over" by clicking on your side of the gap for a red X option). The guards will ask for money, so pay them 20 coins to cross the gap. Grab the knife here if you need a slash weapon ; you will need it later for webs.

Pass the aggressive ogre and you will find several city guards. If you talk to them, they'll give you a word puzzle. The answer to the puzzle is " death rune ". Give the guard the death rune you grabbed earlier and he will give you a map of the Skavid Caves .

Skavid caves [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Skavid map , a light source and a gold bar .

The Skavid Caves are a series of caves located beneath the ogre city. Their entrances are scattered around the north and east sides of the city. You need the Skavid map and a light source to get in.

You will need to first find the Scared skavid (he can be found in the cave labelled "1"), who will teach you some basic Skavid words if you promise not to hurt it. Then, go to the other four caves and talk to each (regular) Skavid , and give them the correct response (see below). Once it says that they understood you, move on to the next cave with the next Skavid.

Their locations are:

1) ( Scared Skavid ) East of Gu'Tanoth along the south-east branch of the entrance path to the city. It will teach you the Skavid language. 2) North-east of Gu'Tanoth along the main entrance path to the city. It will say: "Bidith tanath.", the correct response is "Cur." 3) North of Gu'Tanoth near the opening of the main entrance path to the city. It will say: "Gor cur...", the correct reponse is "Ar." 4) North of Gu'Tanoth south of the west gate to Yanille . It will say: "Cur Bidith.", the correct response is "Ig." Take two Cave nightshade for a latter part of the quest - picking one is also a medium Ardougne Diary task. 5) East of Gu'Tanoth outside the city around the east side of the mountain (5). It will say: "Tanath gor.", the correct reponse is "Nod."

You can also refer to the map above to find the cave entrances.

Return to the Scared skavid . It will tell you that you're ready to take on the Mad skavid .

Go south of the Scared skavid cave along the south-east path of the entrance to the Ogre City and use the gold bar on one of the guards to gain access. Go south and west across the bridge and enter the cave (6). Talk to the mad skavid and respond with the language you just learned.

If you respond correctly, the Skavid will give you a magenta crystal . If you have not yet got two cave nightshades , take two at the spawn inside. Do not eat the nightshade as it will cause damage to you. The hole in the corner will take you back to Yanille [1] . Take it if you need to access a bank for the next part of the quest.

*(Medium task in the Ardougne achievement diary )

The Ogre Enclave [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Anti-dragon shield , food and 2 cave nightshades .

Make sure you have your anti-dragon shield equipped. Go back to the Gu'Tanoth marketplace (just west of where you stole the rock cake ) and use one of your nightshades on an enclave guard, near a cave entrance on the west, to distract them (attempting to talk to the guards will prompt them to attack you regardless of dialogue options chosen). Be careful – use and eat are swapped around, do not eat a cave nightshade. Additionally, make sure you complete the dialogue, or else you will have to get another cave nightshade. After continuing the dialogue, a warning alert regarding the danger of the enclave will appear, proceed forward if you are ready and you will automatically enter the Ogre Enclave .

You'll see a short cutscene with an Ogre shaman and a Blue dragon . Do not talk-to or attack the shamans, or you will instantly lose 20 or 30 Hitpoints , respectively. The last two crystals are here, but you can't get them without some help.

Run straight past the blue dragons and out the exit at the north end. You will appear outside one of the northern Skavid caves facing to Yanille .

Magic ogre potion [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: An empty or water-filled vial , guam leaf , pestle and mortar , jangerberries , and bat bones .

Head north into Yanille . Stop at the bank to get a vial (with or without water), a guam leaf, a pestle and mortar, jangerberries, and bat bones if you have them.

Head back toward the Watchtower . If you need bat bones, a little east of the Watchtower, you'll find a house whose entrance is covered in webs. Take a slashing weapon or a knife , cut through the web and enter the building. You will find several giant bats . Kill one and take its bones.

Return to the Watchtower. If your vial is empty, fill it at the fountain outside.

Climb the ladders and talk to the Watchtower wizard . He will tell you that you can make a potion to destroy the ogre shamans .

You must add the ingredients in this order:

Add a guam leaf to a vial of water . Add some jangerberries . Be careful because the left-click option is to eat. If accidentally eaten, they respawn on Grew 's island - you'll need another rope . Alternatively, you can use telegrab if you do not have a rope. Use your pestle and mortar on the bat bones to grind them. Add the ground bat bones to the vial mixture. The vial will turn into a potion . Give the potion to the Watchtower wizard to get it enchanted, turning it into magic ogre potion .

Shaman slaying [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Some food , anti-dragon shield , a pickaxe , a dwarven stout if your mining isn't level 40, cave nightshade and the magic ogre potion

Return to the Yanille bank to prepare for the blue dragon and shaman enclave. Bring your pickaxe, an anti-dragonfire shield, cave nightshade and some food. Now, go back to the market place in Gu'Tanoth . Distract the cave guards using your second nightshade, and enter the cave. Again, you must complete the dialogue by using the spacebar or pressing click here to continue, or else you will have to get another cave nightshade.
Run around the cave and use the magic ogre potion on each of the six ogre shamans while avoiding the blue dragons as much as possible. The potion will instantly kill the shamans and you won't take any damage. The last shaman you kill will drop the cyan crystal , which is automatically put into your inventory.

If you somehow lose the cyan crystal, there is a Shaman robe in the south-east corner, amongst some bones where you can pick it up and search it for the crystal.

To get the last crystal , find the Rock of Dalgroth in the Ogre Enclave in the centre of the Enclave and mine it with your pickaxe. Note: It can only be mined after killing the shamans. This is in the cave with the blue dragons. Mine the rock before leaving the cave, otherwise you will need to get nightshades again. Make sure you actually mine the crystal, and don't just prospect.

Reviving the Watchtower [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: All 4 crystals .

Leave the enclave using the far north exit again (or use a Nightmare Zone minigame teleport ). Grab the yellow crystal if you banked it earlier, and take all four crystals back to the Watchtower . Talk to the Watchtower wizard , and he will ask you to fix the machine for him.

The crystals must be placed in the following positions:

Yellow crystal in the south-west pillar Grey crystal in the south-east pillar Cyan crystal in the north-west pillar Magenta crystal in the north-east pillar

Finally, pull the lever on the west side of the room to complete the quest.

Note: Before pulling the lever to complete the quest, do not drop anything, as the items will be left behind in the instanced version of the Watchtower and lost permanently.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

4 Quest points 15,250 Magic experience 5,000 Coins A scroll, the reading of which gives you the ability to use Watchtower Teleport Access to the ogre city (and Ogre Enclave where you can fight blue dragons . You will not need an extra nightshade to enter after the quest is complete.) Designation by the Ogres of Gu'Tanoth as a "Friend of the Ogres"

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Watchtower is required for the following:

Monkey Madness II Ardougne Medium Diary Ardougne Hard Diary

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

16 November 2022 ( update ) | The combat levels of the ogre shaman and blue dragon seen during a cutscene of the quest, which were level 1 and 27 respectively, have been adjusted to match their standard variants.

16 January 2007 ( update ) | The quest was renamed from "Watch Tower" to "Watchtower".

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The order of crystals at the end of quest - reading in lines from north-west first, (Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, Grey) is a reference to CMYK, a subtractive colour model used in colour printing. If you examine the trellis from the second story of the Watchtower, it used to just say "Trellis." It has now been changed to "I could climb up this." If you kill all of the tower guards and try to climb the tower ladder before starting the quest, a new one will spawn to tell you not to climb the ladder. Strangely, trying to cross the bridge east of Gu'Tanoth will prompt the player to climb over a battlement. However, there are no visible obstacles blocking the path.

References [ edit | edit source ]

v • t • e Watchtower

NPCs | Watchtower Wizard Tower guard Og Toban Grew Ogre guard Wizard Enemies Gorad Ogre shaman Enclave guard Skavids Skavid Scared Mad |  | Watchtower Wizard Tower guard Og Toban Grew Ogre guard Wizard | Enemies | Gorad Ogre shaman Enclave guard | Skavids | Skavid Scared Mad

 | Watchtower Wizard Tower guard Og Toban Grew Ogre guard Wizard

Enemies | Gorad Ogre shaman Enclave guard

Skavids | Skavid Scared Mad

Items | Crystal Fingernails Toban's gold Toban's key Ogre tooth Rock cake Skavid map Ground bat bones Vial (jangerberries) Vial (jangerberries and guam leaf) Magic ogre potion Shaman robe Spell scroll Useless Old robe Unusual armour Damaged dagger Tattered eye patch Ogre relic Ogre relic Part 1 Part 2 Part 3 |  | Crystal Fingernails Toban's gold Toban's key Ogre tooth Rock cake Skavid map Ground bat bones Vial (jangerberries) Vial (jangerberries and guam leaf) Magic ogre potion Shaman robe Spell scroll | Useless | Old robe Unusual armour Damaged dagger Tattered eye patch | Ogre relic | Ogre relic Part 1 Part 2 Part 3

 | Crystal Fingernails Toban's gold Toban's key Ogre tooth Rock cake Skavid map Ground bat bones Vial (jangerberries) Vial (jangerberries and guam leaf) Magic ogre potion Shaman robe Spell scroll

Useless | Old robe Unusual armour Damaged dagger Tattered eye patch

Ogre relic | Ogre relic Part 1 Part 2 Part 3

Locations | Watchtower Gu'Tanoth Skavid caves Ogre Enclave

Music | Gaol Attack 6

Related | Quick guide Dalgroth Rock of Dalgroth