 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Waterfall Quest (#37)





Released | 24 September 2002 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tom W



Waterfall Quest is an intermediate quest about a legendary treasure hidden somewhere in the Baxtorian Falls . The waterfall holds the history of the great elven King Baxtorian and his wife Glarial .

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Almera in her house north-east of Baxtorian Falls . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Investigate the death of elven leaders of old. Search for the elf King Baxtorian's tomb and discover the mysterious hidden treasure of the waterfall.

Requirements | The ability to withstand and evade attacks from level 86 Fire Giants and level 84 Moss Guardian without any equipment.

Items required | 6 Air runes 6 Earth runes 6 Water runes Rope

Recommended | 25 Combat level Food Games necklace to the Barbarian Outpost for fast travel to Almera Skills necklace to the Fishing Guild for fast travel to Glarial's Tomb An Ardougne cloak to get to Tree Gnome Village via Ardougne Monastery , or a Ring of Dueling via Castle Wars teleport

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | You must briefly visit Glarial's Tomb which has significant item restrictions .

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest Unlocking Tirannwn ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

The Treasure [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Rope , 8 or more hitpoints . You will not need armour or weapons for this.

Start out by speaking to Almera in her house west of the Coal Trucks and north-east of the Baxtorian Falls (use the games necklace to teleport to Barbarian Outpost, and run south). She will tell you that she is worried about her son, Hudon , who is on the opposite side of the river looking for treasure.

She will request that you check on him, and will tell you there is a raft outside the house that you can use. Exit Almera's house toward the river and board the log raft ; you will crash into a small island.

Talk to Hudon. You will tell him to come back to his mother, but he'll refuse, hoping to stay out and find treasure. When you ask if you can help, he rejects you, saying you will steal his loot.

Go to the south end of the small island, and use your rope on the rock in the distance. Do not click "swim," or you will be sent downstream. The rock you want is at the far south, you may have to pan your camera down in order to see it. After crossing, use your rope on the dead tree at the south end of the island to get to a cliff edge alongside the waterfall. If you do not use the rope and instead click on the tree, you will also be sent downstream.

Click on the barrel to get down safely instead of taking damage. If you attempt to open the door in the cliff face right now, you will be washed down river, appearing at the bottom and taking moderate damage.

If you didn't bring a rope, you can attempt to swim in the river, washing you to near where the barrel normally takes you.

After leaving the outlet, you should end up near a large building with a fisherman outside of it. Inside the building, speak to Hadley and run through all of the options. This is the tourist information centre; go upstairs and search the southernmost bookcase on the eastern wall to find a book named book on baxtorian .

You will discover that Baxtorian and Glarial were elven, and read about the legend of treasure under the falls. You will also learn that Glarial's pebble can be found under Tree Gnome Village , which will give you access to her tomb.

The Pebble [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: None (decent food and armour recommended).

Go south-west of Ardougne to the Tree Gnome Village entrance (if you completed Tree Gnome Village you can also teleport to Tree Gnome Village from Grand Exchange). If you can, talk to Elkoy , and follow him to the village entrance. If you have not begun Tree Gnome Village you will have to navigate through the maze. You should find a ladder in the hedge maze. Very low level players should exercise caution due to the hobgoblins within. This cave is where you're going to find the pebble. Climb down the ladder. First, obtain the key in the east room. The key is found in the slightly differently-coloured crate next to the two crates stacked on top of each other in the south-east corner. Next, you will find a gnome called Golrie locked in the west room, hiding from the hobgoblins. Use your key on the door, then speak to the gnome to receive Glarial's pebble . After acquiring the pebble, it is highly encouraged that you start the Tree Gnome Village quest by talking to King Bolren . The minigame teleport to Fishing Trawler will put you to the east of the maze.

Tomb Raiding [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Glarial's pebble and no other items (decent food recommended).

Go to any bank ( Ardougne is on the way back up or if you have completed Tree Gnome Village , Spirit tree to the Grand Exchange and back). Put all of your weapons , armour (including capes), runes , arrows and any type of logs you may be carrying in the bank (bring decent food), as you won't be allowed to enter the tomb if you bring them (However, jewellery such as a games necklace, or the graceful outfit may be brought in). Also, remember to put any extra of the Glarial's pebble that you got into the bank in case you die, but remember to keep at least one pebble with you.

Go just south-east of Baxtorian Falls and just north-west of the Fishing Guild to find a tombstone. Use the pebble on it to enter, as it will not let you in with weapons, armour, or things used in combat such as runes or arrows, or any type of logs (you can drop items at the gravestone and pick them up on your way out). Inside, there are high-level monsters — ignore them or attack a skeleton or zombie before continuing west to prevent any Moss Guardian attacking you, as they have a max hit of 14. Doing so is strongly advised for low-level players. The Moss Guardians can potentially one-hit low level players, so it is much better to take smaller amount of damage from the other monsters. Run to the west part of the cave, past the level 84 moss guardians, and search the chest to get Glarial's amulet . Head to the south part of the cave and search the coffin to get Glarial's urn .

Warning : Searching the coffin is an uninterruptible action. You cannot eat or teleport while searching, and can still be attacked by the monsters in the dungeon, which may cause death, particularly if you are a low level or if a Moss Guardian is attacking.

After searching the chest and coffin, exit the tomb by going up the ladder. If you're low-levelled you may want to acquire multiple amulets and urns. To get an extra amulet, drop it and search the chest and pick it up again. To get an extra urn, drop it and search the coffin and pick the urn back up. Getting a second amulet is advisable, because it is possible to lose one later on in the quest.

Baxtorian Treasures [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Rope , 6 Air runes , 6 water runes , 6 earth runes , Glarial's urn , and Glarial's amulet .

Recommended: Games necklace , skills necklace , armour , weapons , food , potions .

Make sure the amulet is in your inventory. You may also wish to equip yourself for combat . Go back to Almera 's house and board the raft. You will crash again. Use your rope on the large grey rock on the small patch of land just downstream, then use the rope on the dead tree that you can climb. When you reach the doors at the waterfall ledge, go inside.

Rooms of the Waterfall Dungeon:

A cavern with level 52 shadow spiders A room with crates containing a key needed for the quest and level 16 skeleton mages Not used in the quest A cavern with level 86 Fire Giants The path to the Chalice of Eternity A room with the Chalice of Eternity

Inside, you'll find level 52 shadow spiders that drain your Prayer , level 86 fire giants , level 45 skeletons , and level 16 skeleton mages .

Take the eastern passage first, and search the crates for a key . Then you can take the western passage north. You can attack a shadow spider so that the Fire Giants will be unable to attack you (or, potentially, a level 1 rat if enough players are fighting the fire giants further in the cave). (Also you can be likely to find other players training at the Fire Giants on more populated servers, making it easier to pass them. It is advisable to move to a server which is populated with people training, as these giants can one-hit a newer player.)

Careful: If the next portion is incorrectly done you will be washed from the final room.

You will find six pillars, two statues, and a chalice trophy. Use an air rune , a water rune , and an earth rune on each of the six pillars (meaning three runes total on each pillar). Use Glarial's amulet on the Statue of Glarial, and then use Glarial's urn on the Chalice of Eternity. Warning : Complete the dialogue ensuring the urn has been used or you will be flushed. If you do not correctly place the runes on the pillars before putting the amulet on the statue, you will take up to 20 damage. Take the reward (note that you must have five free slots to accept it) from the chalice after the ground rises up to it to finish! Be careful, if you forget to put the urn on the Chalice of Eternity, you will be flushed out of the room!

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 13,750 Strength experience 13,750 Attack experience 2 Diamonds 2 Gold bars 40 Mithril seeds

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Waterfall Quest is required for the following:

Desert Treasure I Legends' Quest Medium Kandarin Diary Roving Elves The Path of Glouphrie

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

13 January 2021 ( update ) | Some crates in the Waterfall Quest have been given a stern talking to and will no longer give messages implying that they are actually chests.

Notes [ edit | edit source ]

This quest can be completed at level 3 combat with no skill requirements. However, Fire Giants and the Moss Guardian can hit a maximum of 11 and 14 respectively. Completing it will increase your Attack and Strength levels to level 30 (assuming they were previously level 1), and your combat level to 22. After an update, Glarial's amulet is no longer required to enter the cave. You can safely discard it after the quest. (Glarial's Amulet is now consumed during the quest) Killing a Fire Giant in the Waterfall Dungeon is a requirement of the Medium Kandarin Diary .

v • t • e Waterfall Quest

NPCs | Almera Hudon Hadley Golrie Gerald Baxtorian Glarial

Items | Book on baxtorian Glarial's pebble Key (Tree Gnome Village Dungeon) Key (Waterfall Dungeon) Glarial's amulet Glarial's urn (empty) Glarial's urn (full)

Locations | Tree Gnome Village Dungeon Glarial's Tomb Waterfall Dungeon Baxtorian Falls

Scenery | Chalice of Eternity Glarial's Tombstone

Related | Quick guide Transcript