 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

While Guthix Sleeps (#165)





Released | 10 July 2024 ( Update )

Also called | WGS

Members | Yes

Quest series | Mahjarrat , #15

Lead developer(s) | Mod Ed



While Guthix Sleeps is a grandmaster quest that was backported from its original release in 2008, and was originally made as a sequel to Temple of Ikov . Changes were made upon its release to Old School RuneScape to maintain the integrity of modern quests and account for continuity deviations from the original Mahjarrat storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Ivy Sophista in Taverley . Show on map

Official difficulty | Grandmaster

Official length | Very Long

Description | This Grandmaster quest sees you continue the Mahjarrat storyline, hunting down one of the most powerful artefacts in existence while ensuring it doesn't fall into the wrong hands. This artefact is known by many names – most recently, the Stone of Jas. It has shaped the course of Gielinor’s history, from the creation of the first Runes to the fall of Zaros. It was last seen at the devastating end of the God Wars, when Zamorak, in a fit of rage, used it to reduce the land of Forinthry to the Wilderness we know today. Angered by Zamorak’s actions, Guthix rose from his age-long slumber and banished the gods. He hid the Stone of Jas far underground, where it could never disturb the balance again... But while Guthix sleeps, nefarious forces have been gathering: the Mahjarrat. Shaped by war and deadly ritual, their plans for the Stone can only lead to catastrophe. Facing off against the Mahjarrat is nothing new for dedicated adventurers – at every turn, they seem to grow in power and wage war against the people of Gielinor. In their last attempt, we saw them set out to tear Varrock apart with an undead army in Defender of Varrock. What are they plotting now?

Requirements | 180 Quest points 72 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 67 Magic ( not boostable ) 66 Agility ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 65 Farming ( not boostable ) 65 Herblore ( not boostable ) 62 Hunter ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Ability to enter the Warriors' Guild (the sum of your Attack and Strength must be at or above 130; OR 99 Attack , OR 99 Strength ) ( not boostable ) Completion of the following quests: Defender of Varrock Shield of Arrav Temple of Ikov Below Ice Mountain Family Crest What Lies Below Romeo & Juliet Demon Slayer Garden of Tranquillity Creature of Fenkenstrain Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost The Path of Glouphrie The Eyes of Glouphrie The Grand Tree Waterfall Quest Tree Gnome Village Fight Arena Dream Mentor Eadgar's Ruse Druidic Ritual Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Lunar Diplomacy The Fremennik Trials Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion The Hand in the Sand Wanted! Recruitment Drive Black Knights' Fortress Druidic Ritual The Lost Tribe Goblin Diplomacy Temple of the Eye Enter the Abyss Rune Mysteries Tears of Guthix Nature Spirit Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost A Tail of Two Cats Icthlarin's Little Helper Gertrude's Cat

Items required | Ring of charos(a) or 500 coins Seed dibber (only if Barbarian Farming Training has not been completed) Lantern lens Unpowered orb Bronze med helm Iron chainbody Sapphire lantern Runes to cast the NPC Contact spell four times (8 air runes , 4 astral rune , 4 cosmic rune ) Runes for any charge orb spell (30 runes of a chosen element and 3 cosmic runes ) Equipment for two different combat styles Obtainable during quest: Knife Mort myre fungus 1 log of any type except redwood (you can obtain one using a bronze axe next to the Hunting Expert ) Pink dye (or 20 coins) Snapdragon seed Papyrus and charcoal Restore potion One of each of the following runes: air , water , earth , fire , mind , law , death

Recommended | 95 Combat level Taverley teleport Access to fairy rings Feldip hills teleport Ardougne Cloak 1 or greater Multiple Falador Teleports , or a Ring of returning with your respawn set in Falador Antipoison or items that can cure poison

Enemies to defeat | 2 Assassins (level 167) 2 Mercenary axemen (level 131) Mercenary mage (level 112) 3 Elite Black Knights (level 138) Surok Magis (level 265) Balance Elemental (level 524) 2 Tormented Demons (level 450)

League notes | Impossible to complete. Tormented Demons will be accessible without needing to start or complete the quest, meaning the only requirement is a Sapphire Lantern .

The Crux Eqal [ edit | edit source ]

The player may receive an Armadyl communiqué from a Guardian of Armadyl during gameplay, but is not necessary to start the quest. Players may choose to wait and receive it if they wish to acquire the item.

Speak to Ivy Sophista at Taverley to begin the quest. She is found in the same building that houses the crystal chest .  She will tell you about the danger that Lucien poses, and thus refers you to Thaerisk , as what he is going to say requires the utmost secrecy. Head up the ladder and talk to Thaerisk, who will continue to talk about Lucien , the evil Mahjarrat has become even more powerful since acquiring the Staff of Armadyl .

As Thaerisk speaks, the two of you will be attacked by assassins disguised as druids; one will focus on Thaerisk, and the other will attack you. The assassins attack with ranged, and every so often, will yell Now! , launching a glowing arrow at the player. Shortly after this arrow lands, the other assassin will say Nothing personal, adventurer! and attack once with a dragon dagger special attack , which can hit at least 53 damage if not protected against. Swap to Protect from Melee after the arrow lands, and then focus back on the assassin. You do not have to worry about Thaerisk; he cannot die in this encounter, and his Earth Blast spells can easily fend off the assassin focused on him.

Speak with Thaerisk again to learn that many operatives of the Crux Eqal —followers of Guthix who play an active part in combating threats to Gielinor— have allied with the Guardians of Armadyl in response to attacks from Lucien's agents. Thaerisk will reveal that they have reached out to the Temple Knights , believing it necessary to unite followers of different gods to oppose Lucien.

He will suggest that players look for a researcher named Movario , who he suspects stole the Staff of Armadyl. Their best lead so far is that he hired a member of the Khazard Army named Darve to act as a bodyguard, and that the Fight Arena is a good place to start looking.

Monitoring Movario [ edit | edit source ]

Bravo, Broav! [ edit | edit source ]

Head to the Fight Arena, and speak to the Khazard Launderer two buildings north of the Fight Arena Bar . This is just south-west of the Ardougne Monastery teleport (accessed with the Ardougne cloak 1 or greater). Speak to the launderer regarding Movario. He will be skeptical to give information, so either charm him with the ring of Charos(a) , or bribe him with 500 coins. He will tell you that he doesn't know where Movario lives, but will mention that he does have a dirty shirt that is too damaged to be washed, and will give the shirt to you. He will also mention that you should speak to the hunting expert at Feldip Hills if you want to catch down a broav of your own to track Movario to his base.

Make your way to the Feldip Hunter area ( Feldip hills teleport is the quickest method, or fairy ring code A K S ) and seek out the hunting expert in a wooden building, south-west of the fairy ring. Note that the other hunting expert outside the red chinchompa hunting ground entrance is not the correct expert; the Hunter Tutor icon found on the minimap marks the correct tutor's location.

Ask her about catching broavs, and she will offer to train one for you if you bring her one. She will provide you with a mort myre fungus as bait; bring this to the trap west of her location, and set up a pitfall trap (requiring a knife and logs—logs can be acquired from nearby jungle trees, and an axe can be found right outside the building if the player did not bring one). After setting up the trap, use the fungus on it to bait it, and wait for a wild broav to appear and fall inside. Once you have an unconscious broav , bring it back to the hunting expert. Be careful not to click too quickly on the trap after the Broav falls in as there is a bug which can create a new trap overwriting the Broav requiring the player to have another set of logs and mort myre fungus . Ask the hunting expert to train your newly acquired Broav.

Movario's Base [ edit | edit source ]

After speaking to the hunting expert, head to the battlefield and enter to the ruined building near the Carnillean mansion ( Show map ). Once here, drop the broav, then use the shirt on it. Follow the broav to a broken table; once the broav squeals, the broken table can be searched, revealing a trapdoor underneath it. Open the trapdoor to enter Movario's base .
Upon entering the base, you will be attacked by melee-using Elite Khazard Guards as soon as you open the door. When ready, make your way to the north-west area shaped like a hook on the minimap. At the northern end is an open chest; search it to obtain a number of runes. Climb down the stairs, where you find yourself in a room with an old battered door in the way. Note that all teleportation from this point onward is blocked . Right-click inspect the door, and pay close attention to the word "PROHIBITED;" one of the letters is stylised after a rune , which is the rune you must use to open the door. This rune is different for every player.

Using the incorrect rune on the door will result in an unblockable blast of magic fired at you, dealing 20+ damage. The colour of the blast indicates the correct rune that should have been used.

Symbol | Letter | Rune | Blast colour

 | O |  | Purple

 | H |  | Green

 | E |  | White

 | E |  | Red

 | D |  | Blue

Upon using the correct rune, proceed through the door. Note that you cannot enter if you weigh less than 2 kg, so unequip any weight-reducing clothing you may be wearing before moving forward.

As you enter the room, a section of floor will sink slightly under your weight. In this room, filled with bookcases with wires running between them, the objective is to open the caged door by diverting power from the gates to the wires. Begin by searching the bookcases until the chatbox indicates that you hear a click as you pull a lever. From that initial bookcase, follow the floor wires that illuminate and search the subsequent bookcase, continuing to do so until the chatbox indicates that the electric gate is deactivated. This message indicates the gate can now be safely opened. Enter the gate, and then search the spiral staircase and disable the trap, then climb it to access Movario's study.

In the study, search the desk to obtain Movario's notes (volume 1) , and click through all pages. Next, pick up the waste-paper basket next to the desk, and search it for a ruby key . Use this key on the northernmost bookcase to the west to access a rising staircase; this has no traps, so proceed upstairs.

Search the bed to uncover a bed chest beneath it, then use the ruby key on the chest to unlock it. Right-click "search" the bed chest (choosing "Open" will trigger a trap dealing 18+ damage). Then, open the chest and search the open chest for Movario's notes (volume 2) . Read it, and do not discard them, as you must give them to Thaerisk later on.

Weight and see [ edit | edit source ]

Head back downstairs to the study. At the southern side of the room, inspect the painting on the wall and pull the lever to reveal an entrance to a hidden room. Cross over the broken wall, then search the drawers to obtain some notes on pressure . Read it, then look at the pressure gauge, which displays a number in the unit of "tickits;" this value represents the sum of the weight of the statue, as well as that of any objects on top of it. Exiting the room requires the pressure gauge to read the same value as the weight indicated in your Equipment Stats interface.

If your mass is different than the value of tickits indicated by the pressure gauge, you must do one of two things. Both require you to take weights from the pile of weights nearby, where there are three sizes available: 1kg , 2kg , and 5kg .

If your mass is lower than the value from the pressure gauge you must take enough weights from the pile to increase your weights to match the pressure gauge's value. If your mass is higher , you must take enough weights from the pile and put them on the statue to the north.

For example, if you weigh 41 kg, and the pressure gauge reads 11 tickits, you must put 30 kg on the statue (11 + 30 = 41). If you weigh 29 kg and the pressure gauge reads 31 tickits, you must pick up 2 kg from the weight pile and keep it in your inventory (31 - 29 = 2).

Once your weight and the reading on the pressure gauge are equal, the eastern door will unlock, allowing you to leave via teleportation.

If you made a mistake, a small contraption by the door will count down from three, indicating the amount of tries the player has before triggering a trap. If the contraption counts down to zero, it will spray gas and throw the player into a jail room, confiscating Movario's notes. Players may simply retrace their steps to get them back.

Note: While not necessary for quest completion, there is a tunnel in the south-west corner of the study. Entering the tunnel brings you to a room where you can loot 100 death runes , 100 fire runes , 100 coal , and 100 magic logs . The fastest way to leave with the resources is to attempt to open the eastern door with the wrong weight on the scale, in order to be kicked out of the base. Note that the coal and magic logs are looted in unnoted form, so bringing a coal bag and log basket will be advantageous for those seeking to reduce trips back and forth. Movario's notes will still be confiscated even if they are in the bank, so it is advised to hand them in to Thaerisk first before going back and looting the base.

Forming a fellowship [ edit | edit source ]

The Mahjarrat's mercenaries [ edit | edit source ]

Head back to Thaerisk at Taverley and show him the notes you stole from Movario's base. He will then tell you that in your absence, the Crux Eqal have managed to secure the Temple Knights as allies, and that a base of operations is being established at the White Knights' Castle . Additionally, they have lost contact with Idria and the Guardians of Armadyl ; as such, Thaerisk will ask that you head to McGrubor's Wood to check up on them.

The quickest way to reach McGrubor's Wood is via fairy ring (code A L S ). Once there, head to the building by way of the loose railing to the east, where a cutscene begins in which Lucien's mercenaries will attack the Guardians of Armadyl. Kill the two mercenary axemen , then finish off the mercenary mage ; when the mage teleports away at low health, you can proceed to speak to Idria, whom you will inform of the Crux Eqal moving their base of operations to the White Knights' Castle. Alternatively, wait for Idria to kill all of them.

Telling the truth [ edit | edit source ]

Head to the Falador castle and head to the round table on the ground floor east side, where you will meet Akrisae along with Thaerisk and Idria. Despite their differing beliefs, they agree that Lucien poses a threat and that they all must work together to stop him. Based on Movario's notes, they will conclude that he is looking for the Stone of Jas , an extremely powerful artefact of ancient origin. They will add that the spies Lucien sent to monitor Movario could be captured for interrogation, and that they have an improved version of a truth serum to use on them. Akrisae will give you a teleorb that you must plant on a spy, which will then teleport the spy into the jail cell once the corresponding teleport spell is cast.

In Draynor Village , you will find a number of shady strangers and suspicious outsiders . Use the teleorb on any of them. Make sure to avoid talking to the stranger first, as you may be unable to plant the orb on them for some time. Note that it is possible to fail, causing you to take a small amount of damage. Once you've succeeded, make your way back to White Knights' Castle and speak to Akrisae, who will forcefully teleport the spy into the cell.

A cutscene will play in which a druid attempts to coax the spy into drinking the truth serum, but the spy will kick them, knocking him out and breaking the "juice." You will now need to make another one on behalf of Thaerisk, who tells you that the enhanced serum uses an enriched snapdragon , directs you to Betty in Port Sarim , and offers a teleport to get there.

Before being teleported, make sure you have a lantern lens and 20 coins. Thaerisk will also give the player a free snapdragon seed if they choose to take it.

When ready, accept Thaerisk's teleport. Talk to Betty and purchase the pink dye from her, then use it on the lantern lens to obtain a rose-tinted lens . Next, speak to her again, asking about enriching snapdragon seeds. She will realise you are working with Thaerisk, since she is aware only he would need it, but willing to help nonetheless.

To enrich the seed, the player needs to use the tinted lens on the shop counter whilst standing at the doorway. Pick up the enriched snapdragon seed and return to Thaerisk in the White Knights' Castle .

Amassing the masters [ edit | edit source ]

With the seed in tow, Thaerisk will instruct you to plant the enriched seed in a special patch on top of the castle. Climb up the western stairs to the top of the castle (three floors up), then plant the seed in the patch (the seed cannot become diseased). As the herb grows, speak to Idria, who will ask that you assemble a small task force to take on Lucien alongside you, all of which can be recruited via NPC Contact :

Turael - in Burthorpe Mazchna - in Canifis Duradel - in Shilo Village , reached by climbing the ladder in the fishing shop. Cyrisus - cast NPC Contact and select him in the interface

The player can visit each master in person, but it is recommended to use NPC Contact instead, since Cyrisus requires the spell to be contacted anyway. Talk to them about Lucien, and they will agree to help.

Once all four heroes are recruited, the herb will have finished growing, so return to the patch and harvest an enriched snapdragon . Head back down to Thaerisk, who he will give you a regular truth serum ; use the enriched snapdragon on it to create the super truth serum .

If you don't already have a charcoal and papyrus , they can be obtained in the drawers just south of the jail cell next to the Suit of Armour. With the super truth serum, go inside the jail cell. The stranger will refuse to talk, so you will threaten him instead, causing him to quickly comply and consume the serum. He will reveal that he takes orders from a man named the Dark Squall , and then describe Squall's appearance. You will automatically make a suspect sketch .

Give the sketch to Idria, who will tell you that she will get them copied for wanted posters and passed around to the Temple Knight's spies. In the meantime, she will ask that you recruit Ghommal , Harrallak Menarous , and Sloane , who can all be found in the Warriors' Guild . Ghommal and Harrallak can be found right by the guild's entrance, whilst Sloane can be found one floor above.

Return to Akrisae, who has potential new developments regarding the Dark Squall . However, the group is interrupted by the appearance of Hazelmere , who will reveal to you that the vision he told you about refers to Lucien , and offers his assistance.

The alliance headquartered within White Knights' Castle. Hazelmere arrives to offer his assistance to the alliance. The band of heroes, gathered together within White Knights' Castle.

The Dark Squall [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Akrisae, who tells you that the Dark Squall has been spotted near the Black Knights' Fortress . Akrisae sent his operative Silif to scout the area, whose last report is that he had entered the fortress and presumably followed Dark Squall inside. You will be asked to investigate this further in case Silif is in trouble.

Enter the fortress with your disguise of choice, then push the hidden wall directly ahead and climb down the ladder. Head south towards the tiled flooring, and inspect the green carved tile with an orb symbol on it. Cast any charged orb spell on it, and it will transform into a trapdoor; climb down to enter the Black Knight Catacombs .

The Catacombs is full of elite Kinshra in the form of Elite Black Knights , Elite Dark Warriors , Elite Dark Mages , and Elite Dark Rangers . They are all aggressive unless the player is wearing elite black armour or the Dark Squall robes , and utilise protection prayers when fought. While this is not unlimited, it is still recommended to bring at least two combat styles to have maximum uptime while fighting them.

After passing the broken bridge, you will be surrounded by elite dark warriors and one elite black knight, allowing you to pray Protect from Melee without any mages and rangers attacking. Kill the elite black knight here until you have a full set of elite black armour .

Making sure to wear the armour beforehand, make your way north-east and climb up the wall. Run all the way north-west to a set of doors.

Recommended: Enter the western door to unlock a shortcut within the catacombs.

With 9 free inventory spaces, enter the northern door and search: 1 Desk, 1 Key Rack, 2 Tables, 2 Wardrobes

for the items required for Silif's rescue:

a second set of elite black armour , the cell key , the Lobster and restore potion , the Dark Squall robes . The robes will be used as your disguise from here on out.

If you have an additional three inventory spaces, take the strange teleorb alongside the death and law rune ; otherwise, you can take them later. Head back out through the southern door, then use the nearest eastern path to reach the jail cells, where you will find Silif in the northernmost cell. Open the gate, then use the lobster (or other food item if you lost the lobster since looting it) and restore potion on him to help him recover. Talk to him again and ask if he has a plan, and he will tell you that he needs to access the inner base to view the Dark Squall's maps and plans, which he can memorise and duplicate once he leaves. You will automatically give him the second set of elite black armour at the end of this dialogue, and he will begin to follow you.

Return to the room with the desks and wardrobes, and lead Silif to the map board by the southern wall. While he studies the maps, he will ask that you find the Dark Squall and plant a teleorb on him. It is recommended that players now bank and regear appropriately, as there will be a magic-based boss fight coming up, explained below.

Scuffle with Surok [ edit | edit source ]

Make your way back to the inner base, and attempt to climb the ladder on the eastern side of the room. An Elite Black Knight will stop you, but your disguised self will fool him, scolding him for his incompetence and ordering him to do push-ups. A cutscene will then ensue where you stumble into the real Dark Squall . He will be revealed to be Surok Magis , who escaped during the chaos in Defender of Varrock .

Surok has 450 hitpoints, attacks with Fire Surge , and has both Protect from Melee and Protect from Missiles simultaneously active. It is therefore necessary to attack with magic. Pray Protect from Magic , as his attacks can hit over 40 without it, but significantly less with the prayer active. Surok is notably immune to damage from powered staves , thus the player must use combat spells in order to damage him. He is also immune to the sapping effects caused by blood spells . It is highly recommended to use the standard spellbook and cast the best elemental spell possible, as Surok's mechanics necessitate the use of the spellbook to counter them.

Every 7-8 attacks, Surok will launch a special attack:

Quote | Attack

Fighting you is beneath me! | Surok will call in either a Strong Warrior or Agile Warrior and begin to approach you. The player will always deal no damage to them unless casting counter spells beforehand. These spells are Weaken for the Strong Warrior and any binding spell , such as Entangle , for the Agile Warrior before they can be damaged. If the warriors are not killed before they reach you, you will be bound and Surok will cast a spell that deals 45+ damage while also killing the warrior in the process.

Magicus ignitus! | Surok will throw out a lit explosive , which will deal 45+ damage if ignored or picked up. Quickly cast Telekinetic Grab on it, then alchemise it to safely avoid the explosion. (If you use the plug-in "No Bad Alchs" turn it off before the fight)

Witness true sorcery! | Surok will cast 1-4 elemental surges that approach slowly towards you, dealing 45+ damage per surge unless countered. The lower Surok's health, the more surges he casts. They can be countered by casting any offensive spell of the opposite element on the elemental surges (not Surok himself). Air and earth are opposites, as are water and fire. The Twinflame staff 's passive effect does NOT work against this attack, spells will still need to be cast manually

If you die, your gravestone will be in the tunnels with the elite black knights and collecting your items will be risky without the disguises. The Dark Squall Robes are always kept on death, so be certain to bring them to reclaim your items.

After defeating Surok, he will fall to the floor. Use the teleorb on him, then return to White Knights' Castle.

Wrath of Lucien [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to Akrisae, and you will report back on your exploits in the catacombs. He will tell you that with Silif's help, they have managed to locate Lucien 's base at the western edge of the Wilderness , and that the heroes will move in once you have visual on Lucien. Your next task is to impersonate Surok, who they believe can contact Lucien directly. Using the robes you stole from Surok's inner base, you will now switch places with him to find a way to access Lucien's base directly.

When ready, walk into the jail cell, and Akrisae will teleport you back into Surok's inner base. If you didn't take the strange teleorb (and the runes required to use it) from the desks, climb back down and do so. Otherwise, activate it whilst standing in the magical circle to teleport into Lucien's camp .

The camp is inhabited by numerous level 128 skeletons and Undead Mages , though they will not be aggressive if the player is still wearing Surok's robes . Run along the north-east path until you are across from the Chaos Temple , then climb up the ice wall to the east and jump to the ledge on the Chaos Temple (this is a safe area and does not count as being in the Wilderness ).

Skip reading to the next section if you want to avoid spoilers for this cutscene.

A cutscene will play showing Lucien, now with the Staff of Armadyl, casting a powerful spell to raise Undead Heroes for his army. He will then notice you, see through your disguise, and cast a powerful spell at you. The first shot will miss, and you will jump away from the second shot, which instead incinerates two elite black knights that are attempting to apprehend you. Seeing you in danger, Hazelmere will call on the band of heroes to teleport to the chapel and engage Lucien.

Mazchna and Harrallak will draw the undead heroes, while everyone else will engage Lucien. Sloane and Duradel will be instantly killed when they attempt to face Lucien, and Hazelmere will cast a barrage of crystalline spikes towards him, all to no avail. Cyrisus , Ghommal , and Turael , after killing their respective enemies, also join in on the attack, but fail to deal any damage. Lucien will then cast another attack, instantly killing the three warriors.

While Hazelmere looks at his seed pod, being no longer usable after he previously used it to save you , he accepts his fate and perishes to the same attack. Satisfied with the devastation, Lucien will then teleport away, forcing Mazchna and Harrallak to retreat back to Falador. Head back to White Knights' Castle. Teleports will work while above the Chaos Temple .

Lucien and his army of undead heroes. Lucien spots the player, and fires a powerful spell towards you. The band of heroes, led by Hazelmere, make haste to your location. The heroes arrive not a moment sooner. Lucien kills Duradel and Sloane. Lucien kills Cyrisus, Turael, and Ghommal. The wise and mighty Hazelmere, moments before being reduced to ashes.

Into the Chasm [ edit | edit source ]

Speak to either Idria, Akrisae, or Thaerisk, who apologise for severely underestimating Lucien's strength. Akrisae will then report that Movario has been spotted entering the Chasm of Tears , and is likely hot on the trail for the Stone; you will be asked to impersonate Surok and head there to help him with his investigations. Use the games necklace to teleport to Tears of Guthix, then head north (past the minigame) and climb the rocks to reach Movario.

Upon speaking to him as Surok, he will tell you that he believes the Stone is at the bottom of the chasm. Though he lacks the means to climb all the way down the deep chasm, you will reveal the light creatures are capable of doing so with a sapphire lantern , and he will use a light blue spell to draw the creature down into the chasm with you in tow. Click on a light creature to attract it.

Rock bottom [ edit | edit source ]

Upon arriving at the bottom of the chasm, you will find yourself on the north-east area of an X-shaped platform.

Search the nearby skeletal remains for the following items: a spade , a hammer , and a chisel .

On the north-east area, use the spade on the pile of rocks next to the skeleton to uncover a brazier, then use the chisel on it to obtain a fire orb . Go west to the north-west area and do the same to the lone pile of rocks for an earth orb . Go south to the south-west area, and use a chisel on the intact brazier there for an air orb . Go east to the south-east area, use a chisel on the brazier there for the water orb .

Trading Orbs For Blocks, Blocks for Access [ edit | edit source ]

Head all the way south to reach the walls shaped as skulls.

For each skull, examine (or camera zoom) the recess to identify an elemental marking. Use the corresponding element orb on a recess to exchange for an elemental block. The 3 lower-level recesses will be randomized for players, but the recess for water block is located 2 levels above the centre skull, and requires climbing to access. This recess appears different but behaves the same.

With all elemental blocks acquired, Unequip your weapon and shield slots and enter all 3 of the lower-level skull nose cavities. Crawl to the end, examine (or camera zoom) the mechanism to identify the mechanism's element, and use the corresponding elemental block on each mechanism. The 3 lower-level mechanisms will be randomized for players, but the fire block will be used on the top floor.

Climb back up to the fourth skull (where you received the water block ) and use the fire block on the recessed block. Inspect the stone cube, and the recessed block will vanish to reveal an entrance. Climb through to reach the Ancient Guthixian Temple.

Dolmens, doors, and druids [ edit | edit source ]

The stone table is surrounded by multiple forked paths leading to 8 of 13 possible statues , each named after potions. Statue selection and locations are randomized uniquely per player.

Make your way south to the central chamber where the stone table is found. Search the nearby skeleton for a silver sickle (b) and a druid pouch(6) . You will need between 2 and 18 free inventory spaces. Drop your spade , chisel , and hammer , re-equip any available item slots to free up inventory. To use the bare minimum inventory space (2), you will need to scout each tunnel to identify each statue. To minimise time running, you will loot all supplies simultaneously (16-18) before visiting each statue. Inspect the Green brazier between the table and north entrance for free stamina doses , and return for more. This brazier does not have a click limit, and will activate the ring of endurance effect and consuming charges if it is equipped.

Note that the druids will always drop exactly what is needed to solve all eight puzzles, so there is no risk of receiving unnecessary items or duplicates.

Use a charged druid pouch on druid spirit s, they will drop one exact set of ingredients you need.

Ingredients are only dropped once, and no unnecessary items are dropped. If you fail to pick them up, you will need to leave and return with your own.

If you have at least 2 more inventory spaces, rinse and repeat until you have either a full inventory or all 16 supplies needed.

With eight spirits required to be freed and six druid pouch charges provided, the player will need to make two additional charges to obtain all the items needed to solve the puzzles.

With the silver sickle (b) and a druid pouch in your inventory, stand over one of the dead vines scattered all over the tunnels. Right-click cast bloom on the silver sickle (b) , and pick the Vine flower s which spawn. With 3+ Vine flower s in your inventory, right-click fill your druid pouch.

Once you have one or multiple sets of ingredients, find the statue that corresponds to your ingredients. Use the two correct ingredients on the statue. Upon using the second ingredient, the statue will animate and you will receive a Dolmen. If you have no more ingredients, return to the table and use your dolmen on the table. If you have more ingredients, continue visiting the statues.

Examine the statues and use the corresponding ingredients on them:

Keyword | Ingredients

Agility | Toadflax + Toad's legs

Attacking | Guam leaf + Eye of newt or Irit leaf + Eye of newt

Balance | Harralander + Red spiders' eggs + Garlic + Silver dust

Combat | Harralander + Goat horn dust

Defence | Ranarr weed + White berries or Cadantine + White berries

Energy | Avantoe + Mort myre fungus or Harralander + Chocolate dust

Fishing | Avantoe + Snape grass

Hunting | Avantoe + Kebbit teeth dust

Magic | Lantadyme + Potato cactus

Prayer | Ranarr weed + Snape grass

Ranging | Dwarf weed + Wine of zamorak

Restoration | Snapdragon + Red spiders' eggs or Harralander + Red spiders' eggs

Strength | Tarromin + Limpwurt root or Kwuarm + Limpwurt root

Upon using the final dolmen on the stone table, the huge door will be opened.

Bank and gear up for the fight in the next section, as there is a particularly hard boss fight coming up which necessitates the use of supplies and multiple combat styles. The player will no longer need the dark squall's robes at this point.

The Stone of Jas [ edit | edit source ]

Players will need to prepare for a difficult fight ahead, requiring equipment for all three attack styles, and a means to restore drained stats. Bringing only two attack styles will result in the elemental praying against both your attack styles in the final phase.

Balancing act [ edit | edit source ]

When ready, head beyond the huge door and run through the corridor until a cutscene begins. As you discover that the Stone of Jas is indeed here, energy begins to coalesce into the Balance Elemental , the Stone's guardian. You will tell it that Lucien is coming to take the Stone; while the elemental believes you, it still has a task to fulfil and will attack the player.

The Balance Elemental has 750 hitpoints and attacks with all three combat styles. It changes styles after four attacks, then uses a special attack that drains both combat stats and a large chunk of prayer, before repeating another four attacks. The first of the four attacks will always be a stat-lowering attack using its new combat style before attacking again normally. It also makes use of advanced pathing to avoid being safe-spotted in its melee form. The standard attacks have a max hit of 40, while the special attack can hit up to 89.

The appearance of its head determines its primary combat style. Immediately switch prayers upon the elemental changing appearance to avoid taking heavy and rapid damage; when done correctly, this mitigates most of the damage dealt. The correct overhead prayer must be active before it begins the animation for the drain attack to negate it. There are approximately 2 ticks to react to the new attack style before damage is taken. Do not be fooled by the animation resembling a projectile — if the Elemental's head is white, it is still a melee attack.

After reaching certain Hitpoint thresholds, it will begin to speed up its attacks and use protection prayers. The Elemental will not switch protection prayers until you deal a certain amount of damage to it.

Bringing a Menaphite remedy and running behind the pillars to hide from the elemental if a prayer swap is missed is an effective way to restore drained stats.

Appearance | Image | Attack style | Prays against (<550 HP)

Fiery / Orange |  | Ranged | 

Airy / White |  | Melee | 

Watery / Azure |  | Magic | 

Health | Attack speed | Mechanics

<750 | 6 | Standard attacks

<550 | 5 | Standard attacks plus one protection prayers (see table above)

<200 | 2 | Standard attacks plus two protection prayers

Players should be careful not to get overwhelmed by the fast attack speed and focus on correct Prayer and equipment switches. If you do find yourself getting overwhelmed, an option is to immediately run to the other side of the Stone of Jas when the fight starts, where the player is safe from attacks. After this, attack the Balance Elemental until it changes its attack style. When its attack style changes, quickly change your overhead Prayer accordingly and run back behind the Stone to sort out the rest. This will give you more time to set up everything for the next couple of attacks until the Balance Elemental switches attack styles again.

If you die, your gravestone will be placed by Movario and Darve in the Chasm of Tears; you will not need another sapphire lantern to retrieve your items, but you will need it to return to to the bottom.

Facing your demons [ edit | edit source ]

Once the elemental is killed, touch the Stone of Jas. This will cause the player to relive memories of the past with other stone-users, such as V . Movario and Darve will appear, thanking you for bringing them to the Stone of Jas. Suddenly, Lucien will teleport in and ask Movario why he did not inform him of the discovery, who defends himself by stating that he had just discovered it. Noticing the player, he proceeds to take the Stone of Jas before summoning two Tormented Demons to attack the player. Idria and the Guardians of Armadyl will then teleport in to assist.

V touching the Stone of Jas. A vision depicting the heroes of the Dragonkin Conflicts with the Stone. Lucien appears to take the Stone. The Guardians of Armadyl come to your aid.

The player's stats are temporarily increased to 255 due to touching the Stone of Jas, and stat drains (such as saradomin brews ) will not affect the player. Kill off the two tormented demons, fighting them one at a time. The demons have a fire shield which reduces damage slightly, and can occasionally bind the player before launching fire projectiles around them which can be avoided by walking away from the targeted tiles, though the Stone of Jas' power means that the player will not have much issue dealing massive damage to them. The demons, like the elemental, make use of advanced pathing and can hit quite high if their attacks are not protected against.

If trying to avoid combat XP, you may hide behind the south-western column; the Guardians of Armadyl are capable of defeating the tormented demons without the player's assistance. This can take upwards of 10 minutes, and logging out will reset the fight, so make sure to not get logged out for idling if trying this. If you are simply low on supplies from fighting the Balance Elemental, it is faster to teleport out to restock, as the fight will reset to when the tormented demons spawned and you will not need to fight the Balance Elemental again.

After killing off the demons, Idria will be amazed at the strength you acquired from touching the Stone of Jas and will offer to teleport you back to the White Knights' Castle. Accept, and speak to the group, who will be dismayed that Lucien now has the Stone of Jas in his possession. Despite this, they plan to stop him no matter the cost.

The story kin-tinues [ edit | edit source ]

If you have completed Dragon Slayer II before completing While Guthix Sleeps, an extra cutscene will play before the quest is completed.

Meanwhile, back in the Lithkren Vault , three Dragonkin - Strisath , Sithaph , and Sakirth - will break free from their stasis chambers, noting that Zorgoth is dead and someone has used the Stone, and agree to bring terror to the mortals who wish to claim its power.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

5 Quest points 80,000 Thieving experience 75,000 Farming experience 75,000 Herblore experience 50,000 Hunter experience Access to the Ancient Guthixian Temple and tormented demons Duradel's notes , obtained from Kuradal , which grants Slayer experience equal to 15x the player's Slayer level when read, as well as the ability to craft the emberlight , scorching bow , and purging staff 100 death runes , 100 fire runes , 100 coal , and 100 magic logs can be looted from Movario's base Elite black armour and Dark Squall robes Access to the Black Knight Catacombs The broav , if kept

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest. Click here for a transcript of the quest's journal entry.

Music unlocked [ edit | edit source ]

Name | Unlock details | Music track

Dangerous Logic | Unlocked upon entering Movario's base | 

The Route of the Problem | Unlocked during the mercenary attack on McGrubor's Wood | 

Incarceration | Unlocked during the first interrogation attempt on the shady stranger | 

Black of Knight | Unlocked upon entering the Black Knight Catacombs | 

The Route of All Evil | Unlocked during the fight with Surok Magis | 

The Evil Within | Unlocked during Lucien's slaughter at the Chaos Temple | 

The Sound of Guthix | Unlocked upon entering the Ancient Guthixian Temple | 

Temple Desecrated | Unlocked during the fight with the Balance Elemental | 

The Kin | Unlocked during the epilogue if Dragon Slayer II has been completed | 

Gallery [ edit | edit source ]

The key visual for the quest. The logo for the quest used in social media and marketing. Concept art of Lucien's Mahjarrat form, by Mod Grub . Lucien's reworked Mahjarrat model, by Mod Skylark . Concept arts for the weapons created from items dropped by tormented demons, by Mod Grub. The login background commemorating the quest upon release. The full login background commemorating the quest upon release, without the main menu overlay. The music used for the login screen of While Guthix Sleeps

Changes [ edit | edit source ]

Date | Changes

24 July 2024 ( update ) | Texts and dialogues throughout the quest have been adjusted to bring it in line with the quest in RuneScape 2 . A chest has been added to Movario's base that contains the runes players may need to open the old battered door . Thaerisk will now give players one snapdragon seed for free, rather than charging roughly half the Grand Exchange value of the seed. Akrisae will now offer a one-time teleport to Ice Mountain upon asking you to investigate Silif's whereabouts, and also remind you that a disguise is needed to enter Black Knights' Fortress . Teleporting using the strange teleorb can now use runes from a rune pouch . When placing herblore ingredients on statues within the Ancient Guthixian Temple, the corresponding alternate ingredients will now be returned to you; for example, placing a herb on a statue that already has one will give the initial herb back.

11 July 2024 | Hotfix Multiple changes were made to increase the quest's difficulty in order to make it comparable to other Grandmaster quests: Surok Magis Players no longer heal off of Surok when using blood spells . Surok's elemental surge attack no longer has its damage reduced by Protect from Magic . Balance Elemental The Balance Elemental's maximum hit was drastically increased. The Balance Elemental's stat-lowering attack now also drains prayer points. The Balance Elemental now requires all three combat styles to be defeated, as it will no longer change its protection prayers after a certain amount of time. Surok's lit explosives can now be alchemised regardless of whether or not the alchemy untradeable item warning is on.

Historical [ edit | edit source ]

While Guthix Sleeps was originally released in RuneScape on 26 November 2008 , more than a year after the August 2007 archive of RuneScape that Old School was built off of. Though the quest is largely the same as the original, numerous changes were made to the lore, graphics, gameplay, music, and rewards.

Developers [ edit | edit source ]

Original:

Developer: Mod Tytn Lead Design Editor: Mod Mark Second Developers: Paul Gower , John H Assistant Developers: Mod Liono, Mod Tim, Mod Newmatic, Mod Maz Additional Writing: Mod John A, Luke M, Mod Rowley Technical Support: Mod Ash , Mod Benny, Mod Chihiro Code Review: Mod John A, Mod Roderick, Mod Newmatic Lead Graphics Artist: James W Graphics: Matthew S, Mod Brass, Mod Alex, Matthew M, Mod Paul B, Jeff K, Wayne M, Mod Stead, Kavi M, Daniel J, Mod GiuG Quality Assurance: Daniel O'R, Dan G, Mod James H, Florian P Editorial: Mod Rowley, Mod Osborne, Luke M, Veronika H German Translation: Gesine P QuestHelp: Katie B Audio: Mod Bond

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

During the quest's original development, it was known as Return of Lucien, or Lucien 2 (luc2). The quest's final title was proposed by Mod Rowley . The quest was originally planned to reward the Rites of Balance, a set of God Alignments , upon its completion. However, God Alignments were put on hold after player feedback concluded that they needed more time in design and thought through much more, with the developers being unwilling to release them in a rushed state. The assassin's act of teleporting to the player before exclaiming "Nothing personal, adventurer!" is a reference to a copypasta . After the completion of the quest, the memorial statues are put up at several spots in remembrance of them. Most of these statues can be found on these specific locations: Turael and Duradel - at the entrance of the Slayer Tower . Ghommal and Sloane - at the entrance to the Warriors' Guild . Cyrisus - at the entrance to the Heroes' Guild . Hazelmere - his statue next to Argento is replaced. Turael, Cyrisus, Duradel, Ghommal, Hazelmere and Sloane - in the Falador Park , next to the pond. After the quest, new replacement NPCs appear since Lucien killed most of the team of warriors organised to stop him in the Wilderness, with exception for Hazelmere or Cyrisus. Turael → Aya Duradel → Kuradal Ghommal → Laidee Gnonock Sloane → Yadech Strongarm Mazchna → Achtryn (only during the quest) A number of mechanics and plot elements in While Guthix Sleeps are reused from previous quests, primarily those made by the quest's original lead developer, Mod Tytn. Opening a door with specific runes hinted at by writing on the door is reused from Legends' Quest . Making a truth serum with a Rose tinted lens is reused from The Hand in the Sand . Making a sketch of a suspect with charcoal and some papyrus is reused from Zogre Flesh Eaters . Using a charge orb spell to open a door is reused from Legends' Quest . Helping a wounded man by giving him food is reused from Dream Mentor . Freeing spirits with a Silver sickle (b) and Druid pouch is reused from Nature Spirit . While most of the potion ingredient puzzles in the Ancient Guthixian Temple are for standard potions, the Guthix balance from In Aid of the Myreque is also included. The requirements for 180 quest points and the completion of A Tail of Two Cats were not initially included in the first reveal of the quest's requirements, and were later added and revealed via an email teaser a week prior to the quest's release. The quest was added to the Quest List on 21 February 2024 with the text in grey ( While Guthix Sleeps ), and served as the first reveal of the quest's requirements. When the quest was clicked on, the usual interface opened but with the description:

“ | This quest is coming soon... When it releases, I can start it by talking to Ivy Sophista in Taverley . | ”

v • t • e While Guthix Sleeps

NPCs | Guardian of Armadyl (messenger) Hunting expert Wild broav Khazard Launderer Betty Shady stranger Suspicious outsider Druid spirit Balance Elemental Alliance Ivy Sophista Thaerisk Idria Guardian of Armadyl Akrisae Silif Druid (super truth serum) Druid (enriched snapdragon patch) Heroes Duradel Hazelmere ( hat ) Mazchna Turael Ghommal Harrallak Menarous Sloane Cyrisus Enemies Lucien Dark Squall Movario Darve Assassin Mercenary axeman Mercenary mage Elite Khazard Guard Elite Black Knight Elite Dark Mage Elite Dark Ranger Elite Dark Warrior Surok Magis ( Agile Warrior ) ( Strong Warrior ) Undead Mage Skeleton Undead Hero Tormented Demon Dragonkin Sithaph Sakirth Strisath |  | Guardian of Armadyl (messenger) Hunting expert Wild broav Khazard Launderer Betty Shady stranger Suspicious outsider Druid spirit Balance Elemental | Alliance | Ivy Sophista Thaerisk Idria Guardian of Armadyl Akrisae Silif Druid (super truth serum) Druid (enriched snapdragon patch) | Heroes | Duradel Hazelmere ( hat ) Mazchna Turael Ghommal Harrallak Menarous Sloane Cyrisus | Enemies | Lucien Dark Squall Movario Darve Assassin Mercenary axeman Mercenary mage Elite Khazard Guard Elite Black Knight Elite Dark Mage Elite Dark Ranger Elite Dark Warrior Surok Magis ( Agile Warrior ) ( Strong Warrior ) Undead Mage Skeleton Undead Hero Tormented Demon | Dragonkin | Sithaph Sakirth Strisath

 | Guardian of Armadyl (messenger) Hunting expert Wild broav Khazard Launderer Betty Shady stranger Suspicious outsider Druid spirit Balance Elemental

Alliance | Ivy Sophista Thaerisk Idria Guardian of Armadyl Akrisae Silif Druid (super truth serum) Druid (enriched snapdragon patch)

Heroes | Duradel Hazelmere ( hat ) Mazchna Turael Ghommal Harrallak Menarous Sloane Cyrisus

Enemies | Lucien Dark Squall Movario Darve Assassin Mercenary axeman Mercenary mage Elite Khazard Guard Elite Black Knight Elite Dark Mage Elite Dark Ranger Elite Dark Warrior Surok Magis ( Agile Warrior ) ( Strong Warrior ) Undead Mage Skeleton Undead Hero Tormented Demon

Dragonkin | Sithaph Sakirth Strisath

Items | Armadyl communiqué Broav ( unconscious ) Dirty shirt Vine flower Duradel's notes Grimy note Lit explosive Movario's base Movario's notes (volume 1) Movario's notes (volume 2) Waste-paper basket Ruby key Notes on pressure Weight (1kg) Weight (2kg) Weight (5kg) Spy interrogation Teleorb Truth serum Rose-tinted lens Enriched snapdragon seed Enriched snapdragon Super truth serum Suspect sketch Black Knight Catacombs Cell key Strange teleorb Elite black full helm Elite black platebody Elite black platelegs Dark squall hood Dark squall robe top Dark squall robe bottom Silif Ancient Guthixian Temple Elemental blocks Air Water Earth Fire Dolmens Agility Energy Restoration Attack Strength Defence Combat Ranged Prayer Hunter Fishing Magic Balance |  | Armadyl communiqué Broav ( unconscious ) Dirty shirt Vine flower Duradel's notes Grimy note Lit explosive | Movario's base | Movario's notes (volume 1) Movario's notes (volume 2) Waste-paper basket Ruby key Notes on pressure Weight (1kg) Weight (2kg) Weight (5kg) | Spy interrogation | Teleorb Truth serum Rose-tinted lens Enriched snapdragon seed Enriched snapdragon Super truth serum Suspect sketch | Black Knight Catacombs | Cell key Strange teleorb Elite black full helm Elite black platebody Elite black platelegs Dark squall hood Dark squall robe top Dark squall robe bottom Silif | Ancient Guthixian Temple | Elemental blocks Air Water Earth Fire Dolmens Agility Energy Restoration Attack Strength Defence Combat Ranged Prayer Hunter Fishing Magic Balance | Elemental blocks | Air Water Earth Fire | Dolmens | Agility Energy Restoration Attack Strength Defence Combat Ranged Prayer Hunter Fishing Magic Balance

 | Armadyl communiqué Broav ( unconscious ) Dirty shirt Vine flower Duradel's notes Grimy note Lit explosive

Movario's base | Movario's notes (volume 1) Movario's notes (volume 2) Waste-paper basket Ruby key Notes on pressure Weight (1kg) Weight (2kg) Weight (5kg)

Spy interrogation | Teleorb Truth serum Rose-tinted lens Enriched snapdragon seed Enriched snapdragon Super truth serum Suspect sketch

Black Knight Catacombs | Cell key Strange teleorb Elite black full helm Elite black platebody Elite black platelegs Dark squall hood Dark squall robe top Dark squall robe bottom Silif

Ancient Guthixian Temple | Elemental blocks Air Water Earth Fire Dolmens Agility Energy Restoration Attack Strength Defence Combat Ranged Prayer Hunter Fishing Magic Balance | Elemental blocks | Air Water Earth Fire | Dolmens | Agility Energy Restoration Attack Strength Defence Combat Ranged Prayer Hunter Fishing Magic Balance

Elemental blocks | Air Water Earth Fire

Dolmens | Agility Energy Restoration Attack Strength Defence Combat Ranged Prayer Hunter Fishing Magic Balance

Locations | Movario's base Black Knight Catacombs Lucien's camp Ancient Guthixian Temple

Music | Dangerous Logic The Route of the Problem Incarceration Black of Knight The Route of All Evil The Evil Within The Sound of Guthix Temple Desecrated The Kin

Related | Quick guide Transcript Journal Stone of Jas Crux Eqal