 | This quest has a quick guide . It briefly summarises the steps needed to complete the quest.

Zogre Flesh Eaters (#80)





Released | 17 May 2005 ( Update )

Members | Yes

Quest series | None

Lead developer(s) | Tytn H



Zogre Flesh Eaters is a Feldip Hills area quest in which you must venture into the crypts of Gu'Tanoth , an ogre resting ground, now crawling with undead zombie and skeleton ogres.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Grish in Jiggig , just south of Castle Wars . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Run for your lives...the zombie ogres are here for your flesh! An ogre ceremonial dance area, used to communicate with ancient ogrish ancestors, has been overrun with diseased undead ogres.
How could something like this have happened? And what sort of rewards could an enterprising adventurer gain from exploring the tombs of such a place?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Big Chompy Bird Hunting Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual You must be able to defeat a level 111 enemy. 4 Smithing ( boostable ) 8 Herblore ( boostable ) 30 Ranged ( not boostable )

Items required | 5 free inventory spaces are needed to receive items near the start of the quest A comp ogre bow (not needed if using Crumble Undead in final battle) or : Wolf bones Achey logs (obtainable during quest) Knife (obtainable during quest) Axe of your Woodcutting level Bow string Brutal arrows (not needed if using Crumble Undead in final battle) or : Achey logs Knife (obtainable during quest) Nails (the best you can fletch into brutal arrows) Hammer Feathers (4 per 1 brutal arrow)

Recommended | 45 Combat level 43 Prayer for protection prayers 10+ Strength (otherwise it is very difficult to open the chest below the stairs in the north-west corner. Strength boosts are useful here) 30 Fletching ( boostable ) (is needed if you want to create your own Comp ogre bow and 33 Fletching is needed to fletch Brutal arrows .) Strength potion if your strength is low. Opening the ogre tomb seems to require strength and lowers your level each time you fail. Vial of water , Rogue's purse and Snake weed if you choose to learn the technique that allows you to mix Relicym's balm (pretty much necessary if < 89 combat, unless you have sanfew serum). A Sanfew serum would be helpful to prevent disease and restore stats. Relicym's balm is a cheap alternative to the Sanfew serum Ava's accumulator to conserve arrows To save the super restore obtained during the quest to combat disease, combat , ranged , or magic potions can be used after normal restore potions . A ring of dueling to teleport to Castle Wars and Ferox Enclave to restore your stats and cure disease with the pools. A Yanille Teleport

Enemies to defeat | Slash Bash (level 111) Zombie (level 39)

League notes | Kandarin ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Morytania ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 5-10 free inventory spaces. 5 for three cooked chompy birds (heal 10) and two Super restore potions. An additional 5 free slots to collect some quest items.

Recommended: A teleport out, a weapon and food, especially for lower level players.

Speak to Grish , located at Jiggig (south after crossing the connecting bridge to Castle Wars ) east of the fairy ring code B K P . He will talk about Zogres (zombie ogres) coming from the ground and making people sick. Ask if you can help, and progress through the conversation. Grish will give you two Super restore potions and three cooked chompy birds.

Talk to the Ogre guard to the east. After mentioning Grish, he will remove the barricade to allow you inside the Zogre-infested area.

Run east to a set of stairs going downward and descend these stairs.

You need enough space to receive the super restore potions and cooked chompy birds, but they are not required to complete the quest. The super restore potions may help negate the effects of Disease during the quest, however.

The cave [ edit | edit source ]

Note: You may now (or have already) become diseased if you are under 89 Combat and a Zogre or Skogre (level 44) attacks you. From now on, make sure you carry Super restore potions with you, because the disease will temporarily reduce a random skill by up to 10 levels every minute or so.

Proceed north-west to an area with a blackened floor. There will be a short cutscene. Search the Broken Lecturn . You will find a torn page that contained a spell. Search the skeleton that is adjacent to the lecturn; a zombie will appear and attack. Kill it to obtain a ruined backpack . Open the backpack to obtain a Dragon inn tankard , some rotten food and a knife . Attempt to search the coffin nearest to the skeleton , and then use a knife on it. The lock should unlock. Try opening the coffin (it may take a couple of tries). When the coffin is open, search it to obtain a black prism . Backtrack and exit the cave by running back to the barricade or simply teleporting out. Note: If you became diseased in the previous part, you can enter a dream in the Nightmare Zone in practice mode and leave to cure disease. Alternatively, you can teleport to Ferox Enclave with a ring of dueling (equivalently, Minigame teleport to Clan Wars) and drink from the Pool of Refreshment to restore your stats and cure disease. Otherwise it will weaken and cure after 15 minutes. Note: Being Diseased can prevent teleporting with minigame teleport. Keep trying until you get it, but it might take more than once.

You may drop the rotten food immediately, and the knife after unlocking the coffin.

B. Vahn [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Black prism , Dragon inn tankard , Torn page , and 5 free inventory spaces.

Proceed to Yanille . Using the Minigame teleport to the Nightmare Zone will place you next to Yanille. The Watchtower teleport can also be used to get to Yanille, assuming the Watchtower quest is completed. Fairy ring code C I Q is also near Yanille. Go to the Dragon Inn in south-western Yanille, and use the tankard on the bartender. The bartender will explain that the tankard belonged to Brentle Vahn , a not-so-moral customer who had been seen with a shady wizard. Talk to Zavistic Rarve , found on the ground floor [ UK ] 1 st floor [ US ] of the Wizards' Guild (NOT the Wizards' Tower !). He'll be wearing white and baby blue robes, distinct from the other wizards. If you don't have the required level to enter the guild, ring the bell on the east side of the building, then Rarve will appear outside. After seeing the prism and torn page , Rarve will tell you to talk to Sithik Ints in the guest house north of the guild on the 1 st floor [ UK ] 2 nd floor [ US ] . Note: Unlike the bartender, using the items on Rarve does not work. You must specifically click 'talk-to' and speak to Rarve or Sithiks will never be mentioned.

Incriminating Sithik [ edit | edit source ]

Proceed to the guest house, which is directly north of the Wizards' Guild , and then go to the top floor. Sithik is in the western most room (in the bed, does not appear as yellow dot on the minimap).

Talk to him, and he will deny any connection to Zogres . When you raise allegations, Sithik will challenge you to prove he is guilty.

Search the drawers , the cupboard , and the wardrobe in Sithiks room. You will find a Book of portraiture , a Necromancy book , papyrus and charcoal , and a Book of 'h.a.m' . Read all three books. Do not drop the tankard as you will need it shortly after.

Use the Book of Portraiture on Sithik. He will recommend trying portraiture for yourself. Draw a portrait of Sithik by using the papyrus on him. He will admire either the 'truth' or the 'honesty' of your completed portrait:

If he likes the 'truth' of the portrait, you will need to drop it and make a new one. You can grab another papyrus from the drawers. If he likes the 'honesty' of the portrait, keep it. Having a higher Crafting level helps with making a successful sketch.

The two portraits won't appear the same in the inventory and the correct one, when examined, will read A classic realist charcoal portrait of Sithik.

Take the portrait and the tankard back to the bartender (First use the tankard on the bartender and then the portrait). The bartender will recognise Sithik as the wizard seen with Brentle , and will sign the portrait as an affidavit. Go back to the Wizards' Guild and talk to Zavistic Rarve or ring the bell outside the door. Use the Necromancy book, the Book of 'h.a.m.', the tankard, and the signed portrait on him, which will be enough evidence to convince Rarve that Sithik may be responsible for the murder. Rarve will give you a Strange potion , which he instructs you to use on Sithik. You need to talk to Zavistic Rarve and select the dialogue option to give him the evidence, otherwise he won't give you the potion.

Use the potion on the cup of tea on top of Sithik's dresser. Go down the ladder and back up to Sithik and you will find that he has turned into an ogre .

Talk to Sithik, and he will confess. Obtain answers to all three questions in order to make Relicym's balm and brutal arrows .

At this point you can sell the Black Prism to Zavistic Rarve . This is not necessary to progress the quest.

You now have a choice: Make Relicym's balm and brutal arrows , or skip ahead to 'Relocating the ceremonial grounds' and use Crumble Undead against Slash Bash.

Upon giving you the Strange potion, Zavistic Rarve will take the Necromancy book, Book of H.A.M., tankard, and portrait from you. After drawing the correct portrait, you no longer need the charcoal, and after poisoning the cup of tea, you can drop the sample bottle .

Making or buying Relicym's balm [ edit | edit source ]

After Sithik Ints has revealed the secret to making Relicym's balm , having it on hand in the final fight will help tremendously. It is your choice to obtain this now; however, the quest can be done without it. The balm is also tradeable.

Relicym's balm(3) is made by using a rogue's purse on a vial of water and then adding snake weed , the herb order does not matter and will yield the same result. Due to both ingredients not being tradeable between players, it can be faster to purchase a Relicym's balm from the Grand Exchange .

It is HIGHLY recommended to give a balm to Uglug Nar , who is near the area in the start of the quest. This will give access to a store selling 100 Relicym's balm (3), and he will give you enough money ( 650 coins ) to buy three of them back. If you give him a 2-dose balm, he will only give you 300 coins , while if you give him a 4-dose balm, he will give you 1,000 coins . The store also has 100 achey logs , 10 bow strings , 10 cooked chompy , and five knives in stock.

Making brutal arrows [ edit | edit source ]

Brutal arrows are the best way to kill Zogres , and shooting them from a composite ogre bow is the best strategy in the final fight. It is your choice to obtain them; however, the quest can be done without it. The easiest way to obtain them will be from the Grand Exchange , as both the brutal arrows and the composite ogre bow are tradeable.

To make the composite ogre bow, use a knife on Achey tree logs with some wolf bones in the inventory. Use a bow string on the unstrung bow to complete the bow (requires 30 Fletching ).

To make the arrows, use a knife on Achey tree logs and fletch them into ogre arrow shafts (each log will give 2-6 shafts). Add feathers to the shafts (each shaft needs 4 feathers). Finally, use nails (made of any metal ) on the flighted ogre arrow while having a hammer in your inventory.

Relocating the ceremonial grounds [ edit | edit source ]

Recommended: Food, armour (Ranged armour is preferred), Relicym's balm , and a composite ogre bow and brutal arrows . Crumble Undead can also be used instead.

Return to Grish and tell him what Sithik told you. Go through all available conversation options. (The bow CANNOT be equipped until this step has been completed!) After this he will give you a key which will give access to the ceremonial chamber to look for some 'old' items for him.

Return to the cave beyond the barricade and head west. There will be two successive locked doors, proceed through both of these and descend the stairs. Continue to the end of this long, wide room. Searching the stand will spawn the boss.

Slash Bash is weak to brutal arrows and the Crumble Undead spell. Other attacks, such as melee, are not effective as they will only hit up to 25% of the normal max hit. He also drains Prayer rapidly. Prepare accordingly, and don't forget to bring at least three Relicym's balm(3) to remove disease .

Slash Bash [ edit | edit source ]

A level 111 Zogre named Slash Bash will attack you. The boss can be safespotted, however you can still be attacked by his range attacks. Use the safespot (pictured right) and kill the Zogre while having on Protect from Missiles . It is possible to use melee on the boss, however it will require using more resources and time since the damage is reduced against him.

It is possible to take too long to kill him, in which case he says something about growing weary of the fight and that he is awaiting a real challenge. You will have to start the fight over if this happens.

After Slash Bash is defeated, collect the bones and the ogre artefact that he drops. The three ourg bones that Slash Bash drops are worth about 73,292 coins each.

Note: While you're here, if you've started Rag and Bone Man II , it is recommended to take advantage of your supplies and kill Zogres until they drop the zogre bone .

Return to Grish with the ogre artefact for your reward.

Congratulations, quest complete!

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 3 ourg bones 2 zogre bones 2,000 Fletching experience 2,000 Ranged experience 2,000 Herblore experience Ability to make Relicym's balm Ability to fletch comp ogre bows and brutal arrows Ability to wear inoculation bracelets Give a 2-, 3-, or 4-dose Relicym's balm to Uglug to gain access to ~ Uglug's stuffsies ~

Bonus: Take the black prism to either Zavistic Rarve in the Wizards' Guild for 2,000 coins or to Yanni Salika in Shilo Village for 5,000 coins .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Zogre Flesh Eaters is required for the following:

Rum Deal Rag and Bone Man II (Partial completion of Zogre Flesh Eaters recommended but not strictly necessary)

Transcript [ edit | edit source ]

This article on a quest has an associated dialogue page. Click here for a transcript of possible conversations encountered throughout the quest.

Trivia [ edit | edit source ]

The quest's title is a reference to the movie Zombi 2 , which was released in some countries under the title Zombie Flesh Eaters . Even though the quest has a smithing requirement, it can be completed without boosts at level 1 smithing, since nails for brutal arrows are easily bought at shops.

v • t • e Zogre Flesh Eaters

NPCs | Grish Zavistic Rarve Sithik Ints Bartender Brentle Vahn Slash Bash Zombie Ogre guard Zogre Skogre Uglug Nar

Items | Ruined backpack Dragon inn tankard Torn page Black prism Strange potion Cup of tea Unstrung comp bow Comp ogre bow Ogre arrow shaft Flighted ogre arrow Ogre gate key Ogre artefact Ogre coffin key Unfinished potion (Rogue's Purse) Relicym's Balm Books Portraiture Necromancy H.A.M. Sithik Portraits Good Bad Signed |  | Ruined backpack Dragon inn tankard Torn page Black prism Strange potion Cup of tea Unstrung comp bow Comp ogre bow Ogre arrow shaft Flighted ogre arrow Ogre gate key Ogre artefact Ogre coffin key Unfinished potion (Rogue's Purse) Relicym's Balm | Books | Portraiture Necromancy H.A.M. | Sithik Portraits | Good Bad Signed

 | Ruined backpack Dragon inn tankard Torn page Black prism Strange potion Cup of tea Unstrung comp bow Comp ogre bow Ogre arrow shaft Flighted ogre arrow Ogre gate key Ogre artefact Ogre coffin key Unfinished potion (Rogue's Purse) Relicym's Balm

Books | Portraiture Necromancy H.A.M.

Sithik Portraits | Good Bad Signed

Locations | Jiggig Yanille

Scenery | Cupboard Drawers Ogre Coffin Stand Wardrobe

Related | Quick guide Transcript Disease