Special attacks
Special attacks , also commonly referred to as specs or specials , are unique abilities offered by various weapons . Unlike passive effects , the player must choose to activate the special attack by clicking on the special attack bar or special attack orb , found under the Combat Options interface or the minimap respectively. Doing so will consume energy .
Special attacks offer a variety of benefits, including temporary boosts in stats , restoration of health or prayer , and extra damage or accuracy. If a weapon has a special attack, hovering over the special attack bar, or spec bar , will show the player a tooltip with a weapon's unique special attack name and description.
Both the attack itself and the amount of energy remaining are often shortened to "spec" in casual conversation; for example, a player may say that they have "50% spec left" if their bar is half depleted, or refer to the dragon claws as their "spec weapon" while in PvP , which they use for a special attack before returning to a different weapon.
Contents
1 Energy
2 Mechanics
3 Non-combat special attacks
4 Combat special attacks 4.1 Healing and restoration 4.2 Stat-boosting 4.3 Multi-target 4.4 Stat-draining 4.5 Accuracy and damage 4.6 Multi-hit 4.7 Binding 4.8 Semi-special attacks
4.1 Healing and restoration
4.2 Stat-boosting
4.3 Multi-target
4.4 Stat-draining
4.5 Accuracy and damage
4.6 Multi-hit
4.7 Binding
4.8 Semi-special attacks
5 Leagues-only special attacks 5.1 Non-combat 5.2 Combat
5.1 Non-combat
5.2 Combat
6 Changes
7 Trivia
8 See also
Energy [ edit | edit source ]
Each special attack uses a set amount of energy from the special attack bar, with the amount of energy used varying from 5 to 100 percent of the bar, depending on the weapon. The energy bar regenerates at a default rate of 10% every 30 seconds, requiring five minutes to completely restore. The energy bar is based on the player, not the weapon; changing weapons will not change the amount of special attack energy remaining. The 30-second timer also resets when logging out, which can significantly reduce energy restoration if hopping worlds frequently.
Other methods to regenerate special attack energy include:
Energy regenerates at twice the normal rate if lightbearer is equipped, granting 10% every 15 seconds, requiring two and a half minutes to 100% energy.
Casting Death Charge and killing a monster within 1 minute will restore 15% energy.
Praying at the Elidinis Statuette at Nardah provides 100% energy.
Using a restoration pool or higher in a player-owned house provides 100% energy.
Exiting the Chambers of Xeric , Theatre of Blood , or Nightmare Zone provide 100% energy.
The special attack energy cannot be regenerated by these methods:
The player is logged out.
The player dies.
The player exits the Clan Wars portal.
The player drinks from the Pool of Refreshment in the Ferox Enclave .
Mechanics [ edit | edit source ]
Special attacks roll two times, just like in normal combat. First, they roll the attacker's offensive bonuses against the target's defensive bonuses, and if the roll is "true," they will produce a successful hit; the second roll calculates the amount of damage.
Many special attacks modify these rolls; for example, some attacks are guaranteed to hit, negating the first roll. Others increase parts of the first roll by a certain percentage; for example, the Zamorak godsword has 100% attack roll modifier, meaning it doubles a player's accuracy . Other special attacks affect the second roll, by offering a chance at an increased maximum hit or guaranteeing a minimum or set amount of damage.
Special attacks almost always roll their accuracy alongside whichever attack style the player has selected; for example, attacking with stab will result in an attack roll based on the player's stab bonus .  Some exceptions to this apply, such as the Saradomin's blessed sword , which always uses the user's stab bonus when rolling, even if the player has the slash style selected. What these special attacks roll their accuracy against (that is, what the target will roll in defence) is specific to the special attack, and is elaborated on below.
In PvP worlds or in the Wilderness , players are prevented from teleporting for a few seconds after using an offensive special attack in PvP combat. This is done to prevent players from using their special attack on a player and immediately teleporting away.
Non-combat special attacks [ edit | edit source ]
Animation Info Dragon axe Infernal axe 3rd age axe Crystal axe Dragon felling axe 3rd age felling axe Crystal felling axe Name Lumber Up Energy used 100% Description Temporarily increases the user's Woodcutting level by 3. Level 60 60 65 70 60 65 70 Level 1 61 1 71 1 1 71 Level 1 85 1 1 1 1 1 Quest None None None Song of the Elves None None Song of the Elves
Animation Info Dragon harpoon Infernal harpoon Crystal harpoon Name Fishstabber Energy used 100% Description Temporarily increases the user's Fishing level by 3. Level 60 60 70 Level 1 75 71 Level 1 85 1 Quest None None Song of the Elves
Animation Info Dragon pickaxe Infernal pickaxe 3rd age pickaxe Crystal pickaxe Name Rock Knocker Energy used 100% Description Temporarily increases the user's Mining level by 3. Level 60 60 65 70 Level 1 1 1 71 Level 1 85 1 1 Quest None None None Song of the Elves
Combat special attacks [ edit | edit source ]
The majority of special attacks have a combat application, and can be used in both PvP and PvM combat. These applications are listed below.
Many special attacks have modifiers, which affect the attack or damage rolls. The first roll, or attack roll , is for accuracy; an attack roll modifier of 0% would have no effect, and an attack roll of 100% would result in doubled accuracy. The second roll, damage roll , determines what amount of the player's maximum hit they'll do to the target; for example, if a player can normally hit up to 20 in their current gear, their normal roll is between 0 and 20. With a special attack with a damage roll modifier of 10%, they now have the chance to hit up to 10% higher, therefore increasing their roll range to between 0 and 22.
Unless otherwise stated, there is no specific defence roll; this is not true for all weapons, which will list what they roll against below if applicable.
Healing and restoration [ edit | edit source ]
Healing and restoration weapons heal the user's health or restore their stats based on the damage dealt to their opponent. These attacks are based on prospective hits, not actual damage done; this is because the damage roll is done before factoring in the actual health of the monster. If a player can hit up to 16 with the blowpipe, for example, they can still have a damage roll of 16, even if the monster they're fighting only has has five Hitpoints left; since this roll means that the player would have dealt 16 damage had the monster had enough health to lose, the special attack will heal based on this damage roll, and as such restore 8 Hitpoints to the player.
Ancient godsword Name Blood Sacrifice Energy used 50% Description The target has eight ticks (4.8 seconds) to move at least five tiles away from the attacker. If the target fails to do so, they will take 25 damage, and the attacker will be healed for 15% of the target's Hitpoints level, up to a cap of 25. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 10% Level 75
If the target fails to do so, they will take 25 damage, and the attacker will be healed for 15% of the target's Hitpoints level, up to a cap of 25.
Eldritch nightmare staff Name Invocate Energy used 55% Description Restores the user's prayer points by 50% of the damage dealt. Can boost the caster's prayer points above their prayer level, up to a maximum of 120. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier Unique roll; max hit is scaled based on the player's Magic level, with a minimum max hit of 42 at levels 82-83. Stacks with gear bonuses; at level 99 with all damage-boosting magic gear, the maximum possible hit is 63, or 71 while on a Slayer task with an imbued Slayer helmet (i) or Black mask (i) . Level 75 Level 50
Can boost the caster's prayer points above their prayer level, up to a maximum of 120.
Keris partisan of the sun Name Tumeken's Light Energy used 75% Description Drains 50 prayer points from the user while overhealing their hitpoints by 20%. Cures poison and venom , and fully restores all drained stats except Prayer.
Fully restores run energy. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Other Special attack can only be used in the Tombs of Amascut . Level 80 Quest Beneath Cursed Sands
Cures poison and venom , and fully restores all drained stats except Prayer.
Fully restores run energy.
Purging staff Name Scatter ashes Energy used 25% Description Requires being on the Arceuus spellbook . Uses the best demonbane spell the player can cast; if the demonic creature targeted dies from Scatter ashes, the special attack energy used is refunded, and the player's next attack can be used three ticks earlier. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 77 Quest While Guthix Sleeps
Uses the best demonbane spell the player can cast; if the demonic creature targeted dies from Scatter ashes, the special attack energy used is refunded, and the player's next attack can be used three ticks earlier.
Toxic blowpipe Name Toxic Siphon Energy used 50% Description Heals the user for half of the damage dealt, rounded down. Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 50% Level 75
Saradomin godsword Name Healing Blade Energy used 50% Description Restores the user's Hitpoints by 50% of damage dealt (minimum of 10 Hitpoints). Restores the user's Prayer by 25% of damage dealt (minimum of 5 Prayer points ). The attack has no effect if it misses completely. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 10% Level 75
Restores the user's Prayer by 25% of damage dealt (minimum of 5 Prayer points ).
The attack has no effect if it misses completely.
Stat-boosting [ edit | edit source ]
Similar to stat-boosting potions, stat-boosting special attacks will temporarily boost skills above their current level. Preserve will work on these boosts, just like potions or various drinks.
Note that stat boosts will not allow players to wield weapons or wear armour that they currently lack the level to equip; it will simply increase their accuracy and damage rolls for offensive attacks, and their defence rolls when calculating an opponent's accuracy.
Brine sabre Name Liquify Energy used 75% Description Adds 25% of the damage dealt to the user's Strength , Attack and Defence levels. The level boost caps at 3 + 10% of the stat's original level. Can only be used underwater. Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier None Level 40
The level boost caps at 3 + 10% of the stat's original level.
Can only be used underwater.
Dragon battleaxe Name Rampage Energy used 100% Description Lowers the user's Attack , Defence , Ranged , and Magic levels by 10%. Increases the user's Strength by 10 + (levels drained / 4). Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 60 Quest Heroes' Quest
Increases the user's Strength by 10 + (levels drained / 4).
Excalibur Name Sanctuary Energy used 100% Description Increases the user's Defence by 8 levels. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 20 Quest Merlin's Crystal
Multi-target [ edit | edit source ]
When used, multi-target attacks can hit multiple enemies with the same attack. These attacks only work in multi-combat areas , and will only hit monsters within a specific proximity to the player.
Dinh's bulwark Name Shield Bash Energy used 50% Description Attacks surrounding targets in a 11x11 area, hitting targets twice (except in PvP). Target's highest offensive stat will always be reduced by 5% when hit. Defence roll Crush Attack roll modifier 20% normally; -20% when in non-PvP and using defensive. Damage roll modifier None Level 75 Level 75
Target's highest offensive stat will always be reduced by 5% when hit.
Dragon crossbow Name Annihilate Energy used 60% Description Hits up to 9 enemies in a 3x3 area of the primary target. Attack roll modifier Guaranteed hit (but may still roll for 0 damage) Damage roll modifier 20% (primary target); -20% (additional targets) Enchanted bolts cannot activate their effects. Level 64
Enchanted bolts cannot activate their effects.
Animation Information Dragon halberd Crystal halberd Name Sweep Energy used 30% Description Hits up to 10 NPC's in front of the user at once. For monsters that occupy two or more tiles , the halberd will hit twice. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier None; separate roll for each hit. Damage roll modifier 10% Level 60 70 Level 30 35 Level 56 Quest Regicide Diary None Western Provinces (Hard)
For monsters that occupy two or more tiles , the halberd will hit twice.
Dragon 2h sword Name Powerstab Energy used 60% Description Hits up to 14 enemies within one square of the user. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 60
Rune thrownaxe Name Chainhit Energy used 10% for each hit; up to 50% Description Bounces off target to hit up to five other opponents in a 3 tile radius. Attack roll modifier None, but an accuracy roll is made after each target hit; a failure ends the sequence. Damage roll modifier The user's prayers are not taken into account for the damage roll. Level 40
Vesta's spear (Deadman Mode) Name Spear Wall Energy used 50% Description Damages up to 16 targets within 8 tiles surrounding the user. Additionally, the user becomes immune to melee attacks for 8 ticks (4.8 seconds). Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 78
Stat-draining [ edit | edit source ]
These attacks will drain the target's stats based on the amount of damage done, sometimes restoring a fraction of the drained levels to the attacker.
Abyssal whip Name Energy Drain Energy used 50% Description Transfers 10% of the target's run energy to the user in PvP. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 25% Damage roll modifier None Level 70
Accursed sceptre Name Condemn Energy used 50% Description If damage is dealt, the target's Defence and Magic are reduced by up to 15%. Attack roll modifier 50% Damage roll modifier None Level 70
Ancient mace Name Favour of the War God Energy used 100% Description Drains the Prayer points of the target by 100% of the amount hit Recharges or boosts the user's prayer points by the amount drained. Hits through Protect from Melee. Defence roll Crush Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 15 Quest Another Slice of H.A.M.
Recharges or boosts the user's prayer points by the amount drained.
Hits through Protect from Melee.
Bandos godsword Name Warstrike Energy used 50% Description Drains one of the target's Combat stats by the amount of damage dealt. If the stat reaches 0 before all damage is accounted for, another stat will be drained by the amount remaining. Stats are drained in the following order: Defence , Strength , Prayer , Attack , Magic , Ranged . Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 21% Level 75
If the stat reaches 0 before all damage is accounted for, another stat will be drained by the amount remaining.
Stats are drained in the following order: Defence , Strength , Prayer , Attack , Magic , Ranged .
Barrelchest anchor Name Sunder Energy used 50% Description Drains the target's combat levels equivalent to 10% of the damage dealt. Drains in the following order: Defence , Attack , Ranged , then Magic . Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 10% Level 60 Level 40 Quest The Great Brain Robbery
Drains in the following order: Defence , Attack , Ranged , then Magic .
Bone dagger • Bone dagger (p) • (p+) • (p++) Name Backstab Energy used 75% Description Lowers the Defence of the target equal to the amount of damage dealt. Attack roll modifier Skips roll; guaranteed hit if you weren't the last one to attack the target. Damage roll modifier None Level 1 Quest The Lost Tribe
Animation Information Darklight Arclight Name Weaken Energy used 50% Description Drains the target's Attack , Strength , and Defence by 5% of their level + 1. Twice as effective on demons (reduces each stat by 10%). Special is only activated on successful hits . Defence roll Stab Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 1 75 Quest Shadow of the Storm
Twice as effective on demons (reduces each stat by 10%).
Special is only activated on successful hits .
Animation Information Emberlight Name Weaken Energy used 50% Description Drains the target's Attack , Strength , and Defence by 5% of their level + 1. Three times as effective on demons (reduces each stat by 15%). Special is only activated on successful hits . Defence roll Stab Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 77 Quest While Guthix Sleeps
Three times as effective on demons (reduces each stat by 15%).
Special is only activated on successful hits .
Dorgeshuun crossbow Name Snipe Energy used 75% Description Lowers the target's Defence level equal to the amount of damage inflicted. Attack roll modifier Skips roll; guaranteed hit if you weren't the last one to attack the target. Damage roll modifier None Level 28 Quest None
Dragon scimitar Name Sever Energy used 55% Description Prevents the target from using protection prayers for 8 ticks (4.8 seconds). Only activates if the user lands a successful hit. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 25% Damage roll modifier None Level 60 Quest Monkey Madness I
Only activates if the user lands a successful hit.
Animation Information Dragon warhammer Name Smash Energy used 50% Description Lowers the target's current Defence level by 30% on a successful hit . The effect is stackable and relative to the target's current level. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier 50% Level 1 Level 60
The effect is stackable and relative to the target's current level.
Animation Information Statius's warhammer Name Smash Energy used 35% Description Lowers the target's current Defence level by 70% on a successful hit . The effect is stackable and relative to the target's current level. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier Between -25% and 25% Level 1 Level 75 (78 in Deadman Mode )
The effect is stackable and relative to the target's current level.
Elder maul Name Pulverize Energy used 50% Description Lowers the target's current Defence level by 35% on a successful hit . The effect is stackable and relative to the target's current level. Attack roll modifier 25% Damage roll modifier None Level 75 Level 75
Morrigan's throwing axe Name Hamstring Energy used 50% Description In PvP , the target's run energy will be drained six times faster than usual for one minute. Attack roll modifier 50% Damage roll modifier Between -50% and 50% Level 78
Seercull Name Soulshot Energy used 100% Description Lowers the Magic level of the target equal to the amount of damage dealt. Attack roll modifier Skips roll; guaranteed hit. Damage roll modifier Ignores the user's prayers and passive equipment bonuses when rolling damage. Level 50
Staff of the dead • Toxic staff of the dead • Staff of light • Staff of balance Name Power of Death Energy used 100% Description Reduce all Melee damage by 50% for the next minute. Stacks with the PvP damage-reduction effect of Protect from Melee. Unequipping the staff while the effect is still active will immediately end the effect. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 75 Level 75
Stacks with the PvP damage-reduction effect of Protect from Melee.
Unequipping the staff while the effect is still active will immediately end the effect.
Tonalztics of ralos Name Division Energy used 50% Description If damage is dealt, the target's Defence level is reduced by 10% of its Magic level. If the weapon is charged, the target's Defence level is reduced by 20% of its Magic level if both hits deal damage. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 75
If the weapon is charged, the target's Defence level is reduced by 20% of its Magic level if both hits deal damage.
Accuracy and damage [ edit | edit source ]
These attacks affect some combination of the attack roll and the damage roll, and may also include latent damage to a target.
Abyssal bludgeon Name Penance Energy used 50% Description Deals 0.5% extra damage for every prayer point the attacker is missing. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 70 Level 70
Armadyl crossbow Name Armadyl Eye Energy used 50% Description Doubles the player's enchanted bolts activation chance for that shot. Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier None Level 75
Armadyl godsword Name The Judgement Energy used 50% Description Inflicts extra damage and increases accuracy. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 37.5% Level 75
Blue moon spear Name Break Shackles Energy used 50% Description Deals 1% extra damage and accuracy on a bound target for every tick they remain immobilized. Requires the full blue moon armour set to be equipped. After dealing damage, the binding effects are removed from the target. Attack roll modifier 1*(target's ticks bound)% Damage roll modifier 1*(target's ticks bound)% Level 70 Level 75
Requires the full blue moon armour set to be equipped. After dealing damage, the binding effects are removed from the target.
Dawnbringer Name Pulsate Energy used 35% Description Fires a powerful blast towards Verzik Vitur. Attack roll modifier Skips roll; guaranteed hit Damage roll modifier Inflicts 75-150 damage, independent of user's stats. Other This weapon only works in the Theatre of Blood . Level None Quest Priest in Peril
Dragon hasta • Dragon hasta(p) • (p+) • (p++) • Dragon hasta(kp) Name Unleash Energy used 5-100% Description Boosts the next hit's accuracy and damage based on how much energy the user has available. Defence roll Stab Attack roll modifier 5% for each 5% of energy used Damage roll modifier 2.5% for each 5% of energy used Level 60
Dragon longsword Name Cleave Energy used 25% Description Deals 25% more damage. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier 25% Level 60 Quest Lost City
Dragon mace Name Shatter Energy used 25% Description Increases damage and accuracy for one hit. Defence roll Crush Attack roll modifier 25% Damage roll modifier 50% Level 60 Quest Heroes' Quest
Dragon sword Name Wild Stab Energy used 40% Description If the target is using Protect from Melee , the special attack will ignore the prayer for one attack. Defence roll Stab Attack roll modifier 25% Damage roll modifier 25% Level 60
Dragon thrownaxe Name Momentum Throw Energy used 25% Description Guarantees the user will attack on the next game tick. Attack roll modifier 25% Damage roll modifier None Level 61
Dual macuahuitl Name Blood Infusion Energy used 25% Description Raises the player's minimum and maximum hit by 25% for that one attack, whilst taking damage equal to 25% of their current Hitpoints rounded down. Requires the full blood moon armour set to be equipped. The Bloodrager set effect is guaranteed to trigger if the attack hits. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier 25% Level 70 Level 75
Requires the full blood moon armour set to be equipped. The Bloodrager set effect is guaranteed to trigger if the attack hits.
Eclipse atlatl Name Eclipse Energy used 50% Description Consumes all remaining burn damage to increase the maximum hit of one attack by that number and the minimum hit by half of that number, capped at 50. Requires the full eclipse moon armour set to be equipped. Must be performed within melee distance of the target. Defence roll Magic defence Attack roll modifier 50% Damage roll modifier None Level 50 Level 50 Level 75
Requires the full eclipse moon armour set to be equipped. Must be performed within melee distance of the target.
Granite hammer Name Hammer Blow Energy used 60% Description Adds 5 damage to the attack, even if the player was supposed to deal zero damage. Attack roll modifier 50% Damage roll modifier Roll + 5 Level 50 Level 50
Keris partisan of corruption Name Wrath of Amascut Energy used 75% Description Next attack's speed is halved; if hit, the target will take 25% increased damage for the next 6 seconds. This special attack can only be used within the Tombs of Amascut . Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 25% + 25% on all rolls for next 6 seconds. Other Special attack can only be used in the Tombs of Amascut . Level 80 Quest Beneath Cursed Sands
This special attack can only be used within the Tombs of Amascut .
Animation Information Light ballista Heavy ballista Name Concentrated Shot Energy used 65% Description Increases accuracy and damage by 25% each for one shot. Attack roll modifier 25% Damage roll modifier 25% Level 67 75 Quest None Monkey Madness II
Magic longbow • Magic comp bow Name Powershot Energy used 35% Description Launches a shot that is guaranteed to hit your target. Attack roll modifier True; guaranteed hit Damage roll modifier The effects of the Void set and prayers are ignored when rolling. Level 50
Morrigan's javelin Name Phantom Strike Energy used 50% Description Applies damage to the target over time. Every 3 ticks (1.8 seconds), the target will take an additional 10 hitpoints of damage. Lasts until the 75% of the damage dealt by the special attack has been delivered. Has no effect on NPCs . Attack roll modifier 50% Damage roll modifier None Level 78
Every 3 ticks (1.8 seconds), the target will take an additional 10 hitpoints of damage.
Lasts until the 75% of the damage dealt by the special attack has been delivered.
Has no effect on NPCs .
Noxious halberd Name Virulence Energy used 50% Description Instantly metabolize any poison you are suffering from to buff your next attack by that amount of damage. Defence roll Selected combat style Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier Minimum hit equal to the damage the cured poison or venom would have dealt. Level 80
Osmumten's fang Name Eviscerate Energy used 25% Description Rolls using the fang's true max hit when determining damage. Defence roll Stab Attack roll modifier 50% Damage roll modifier None; cancels the normal modifier of -85% to -15%. Level 82
Rune claws Name Impale Energy used 25% Description Attack with 10% more Attack and Strength , but with a slower speed. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 40
Saradomin's blessed sword Name Saradomin's Blessed Lightning Energy used 65% Description Launches a Magic -based attack which rolls against the target's magic defence bonus using the user's slash attack bonus Defence roll Magic defence Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier 25% Level 75
Animation Information Vesta's longsword Vesta's blighted longsword Name Feint Energy used 25% Description Hits with increased damage while only rolling against 25% of the target's defence. Defence roll Stab Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier Between -80% to 20% Level 75 78
Voidwaker Name Disrupt Energy used 50% Description Deals guaranteed magic damage between 50-150% of the wielder's maximum melee hit. Attack roll modifier True; guaranteed hit Damage roll modifier Between -50% and 50% Level 75
Volatile nightmare staff Name Immolate Energy used 55% Description Hits the target for 49-97 damage, scaling based on the caster's Magic level, equipment, and target. Attack roll modifier 50% Damage roll modifier Unique roll Level 82 Level 50
Zaryte crossbow Name Evoke Energy used 75% Description The special effect of enchanted bolts are guaranteed to occur for that shot. Only activates if user lands a successful hit. Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier None Level 80
Only activates if user lands a successful hit.
Multi-hit [ edit | edit source ]
These attacks hit the target multiple times in one attack or game tick. Multiple hit weapons are useful for delivering killing blows in PvP.
Abyssal dagger • Abyssal dagger (p) • (p+) • (p++) Name Abyssal Puncture Energy used 25% Description Hits the target twice, either hitting or missing both attacks. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 25% for both rolls If the first roll is true or false, so is the second Damage roll modifier -15% Level 70
If the first roll is true or false, so is the second
Burning claws Name Burning barrage Energy used 30% Description Attacks 3 times in quick succession, with a chance to burn the enemy on each hit. Defence roll Selected combat style Attack roll modifier None until an attack successfully hits. Once an attack successfully hits, all attack rolls are true (guaranteed hit) Damage roll modifier The damage roll modifiers are based on which hit is the first successful one. Level 60
Once an attack successfully hits, all attack rolls are true (guaranteed hit)
Dark bow Name Descent of Darkness (Descent of Dragons if using dragon arrows ) Energy used 55% Description Launches a double attack. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier 30%; rolls between 5 and 48. 50%; rolls between 8 and 48 (if using dragon arrows). Level 60
50%; rolls between 8 and 48 (if using dragon arrows).
Dragon claws Name Slice and Dice Energy used 50% Description Hits 4 times in rapid succession, with multiple damage roll modifiers Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier None until an attack successfully hits. Once an attack successfully hits, all attack rolls are true (guaranteed hit) Damage roll modifier The damage roll modifiers are based on which hit is the first successful one. See below The fourth roll will always either hit the same as the third roll, or one less, unless hit three misses Successful first hit: - 1 damage , and then damage on hits two and three is halved. Successful second hit; between -62.5% and -12.5%, and then damage on hit three is halved. Third hit;  between -75% and -25%. Fourth hit; between 25% and 125%. Level 60
Once an attack successfully hits, all attack rolls are true (guaranteed hit)
The fourth roll will always either hit the same as the third roll, or one less, unless hit three misses
Successful first hit: - 1 damage , and then damage on hits two and three is halved.
Successful second hit; between -62.5% and -12.5%, and then damage on hit three is halved.
Third hit;  between -75% and -25%.
Fourth hit; between 25% and 125%.
Dragon dagger • Dragon dagger(p) • (p+) • (p++) Name Puncture Energy used 25% Description Performs two quick slashes. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 15% Damage roll modifier 15% Level 60 Quest Lost City
Dragon knife • Dragon knife(p) • (p+) • (p++) Name Duality Energy used 25% Description Throws two dragon knives at once. Each knife has its own accuracy and damage roll. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 60
Each knife has its own accuracy and damage roll.
Animation Information Granite maul Granite maul (ornate handle) Name Quick Smash Energy used 60% 50% Description Instantly performs a second attack. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 50 Level 50
Animation Information Magic shortbow Magic shortbow (i) Name Snapshot Energy used 55% 50% Description Fires two arrows very rapidly. Attack roll modifier 43%; in-game tooltip falsely says it reduces accuracy. Damage roll modifier Ignores void set and prayer effects. Level 50
Saradomin sword Name Saradomin's Lightning Energy used 100% Description Inflicts 1-16 extra Magic damage upon user's target. Defence roll Magic defence Attack roll modifier Rolled using slash attack, not magic Damage roll modifier 10% (melee hit only) Level 70
Vesta's spear (Bounty Hunter) Name Spear Wall Energy used 50% Description Performs a regular attack. After 2 ticks (1.2 seconds), a second hit will hit the target. Additionally, the user becomes immune to melee attacks for 8 ticks (4.8 seconds), and a successful attack reduces the player's attack delay by 1 tick (from 3.0 seconds to 2.4 seconds) for their next attack. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None (first hit) Between -50% and -25% of the first hit (second hit) Level 78
Webweaver bow Name Swarm Energy used 50% Description Hit four times in rapid succession. Can also inflict poison that starts at four damage. Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier -60% or more per hit, but total damage could be up to 20% overall Level 70
Can also inflict poison that starts at four damage.
Binding [ edit | edit source ]
These attacks freeze or stun the target, holding them in place for a set amount of time.
Abyssal tentacle Name Binding Tentacle Energy used 50% Description Binds a target for 5 seconds Increases target's chance of being poisoned . Attack roll modifier 25% Damage roll modifier None Level 75
Increases target's chance of being poisoned .
Animation Information Dragon spear • Dragon spear(p) • (p+) • (p++) • Dragon spear(kp) Zamorakian hasta • Zamorakian spear Name Shove Energy used 25% Description Pushes the target back and stuns them for 3 seconds. Attack roll modifier Guaranteed false; the stun always applies, but never deals damage. Damage roll modifier None Level 60 70
(p+) • (p++) • Dragon spear(kp)
Zamorakian spear
Animation Information Rod of Ivandis Ivandis flail Blisterwood flail Name Retainer Energy used 10% Description Traps a vampyre juvenile or juvinate that has 50% or less health, preventing retaliation. Secondary special ability None Can be used to cast bloom . Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 1 40 50 Quest In Aid of the Myreque A Taste of Hope Sins of the Father
Scorching bow Name Scorching shackles Energy used 25% Description Binds demonic creatures for 12 seconds (20 ticks), dealing 1 burn damage in the process. It deals an additional 1 burn damage every 4 ticks (2.4 seconds), for a total of 5 burn damage.
Cannot be used against non-demonic monsters. Attack roll modifier None Damage roll modifier None Level 77 Quest While Guthix Sleeps
It deals an additional 1 burn damage every 4 ticks (2.4 seconds), for a total of 5 burn damage.
Cannot be used against non-demonic monsters.
Ursine chainmace Name Bear Down Energy used 50% Description If damage is dealt in PvP, target is unable to run for 3.6 seconds (6 ticks), Target will also have their Agility level reduced by 20. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier None, but target is dealt an additional 20 damage over 6 seconds. Level 70
Target will also have their Agility level reduced by 20.
Zamorak godsword Name Ice Cleave Energy used 50% Description If the special attack hits successfully, it freezes the target for 20 seconds. Defence roll Slash Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 10% Level 75
Semi-special attacks [ edit | edit source ]
Some weapons feature special-attack abilities that are not based on the special attack bar's cool down; they must be activated, and there is a cooldown before the player can use them again.
Ancient wyvern shield Name None Energy used None; usable once every two minutes Description When activated, the shield lets out a Wyvern-like attack and the shield's stats are lowered accordingly. Has a chance of freezing the target. Defence roll Magic Defence Attack roll modifier None; rolls based on the user's Defence level Damage roll modifier Rolls from 0-15 Level 70 Level 75 Quest Dragon Slayer I (started)
Has a chance of freezing the target.
Dragonfire shield Name None Energy used None; usable once every two minutes Description Unleashes a blast of dragonfire at a target, using one charge. Can hit up to 13 spaces away. Defence roll Magic Defence Attack roll modifier None; rolls based on the user's Defence level Damage roll modifier Rolls from 0-25 Level 75 Quest Dragon Slayer I (started)
Can hit up to 13 spaces away.
Dragonfire ward Name None Energy used None; usable once every two minutes Description Unleashes a blast of dragonfire at a target, using one charge. Can hit up to 13 spaces away. Defence roll Magic Defence Attack roll modifier None; rolls based on the user's Defence level Damage roll modifier Rolls from 0-25 Level 70 Level 75 Quest Dragon Slayer I (started)
Can hit up to 13 spaces away.
Soulreaper axe Name Behead Energy used None, consumes Soul Stacks instead Description Consumes the player's Soul Stacks in exchange for a stronger hit. Each Soul Stack increases the player's accuracy and strength for the special attack by 6%, and heals them by 8 hitpoints. Attack roll modifier 6%-30% Damage roll modifier 6%-30% Level 80 Level 80
Each Soul Stack increases the player's accuracy and strength for the special attack by 6%, and heals them by 8 hitpoints.
Leagues-only special attacks [ edit | edit source ]
A number of weapons present only in Leagues have been given special attacks.
Non-combat [ edit | edit source ]
Animation Info Trailblazer axe (Trailblazer) Trailblazer axe (Trailblazer Reloaded) Echo axe Name Lumber Up Energy used 100% Description Temporarily increases the user's Woodcutting level by 3. Only obtainable in the Trailblazer , Trailblazer Reloaded , and Raging Echoes Leagues .
Only obtainable in the Trailblazer , Trailblazer Reloaded , and Raging Echoes Leagues .
Animation Info Trailblazer harpoon (Trailblazer) Trailblazer harpoon (Trailblazer Reloaded) Echo harpoon Name Fishstabber Energy used 100% Description Temporarily increases the user's Fishing level by 3. Only obtainable in the Trailblazer , Trailblazer Reloaded , and Raging Echoes Leagues .
Only obtainable in the Trailblazer , Trailblazer Reloaded , and Raging Echoes Leagues .
Animation Info Trailblazer pickaxe (Trailblazer) Trailblazer pickaxe (Trailblazer Reloaded) Echo pickaxe Name Rock Knocker Energy used 100% Description Temporarily increases the user's Mining level by 3. Only obtainable in the Trailblazer , Trailblazer Reloaded , and Raging Echoes Leagues .
Only obtainable in the Trailblazer , Trailblazer Reloaded , and Raging Echoes Leagues .
Combat [ edit | edit source ]
Crystal dagger (perfected) Name Crystalline Severance Energy used 25% Description Disables the Echo Corrupted Hunllef 's protection prayers. Only obtainable in the Raging Echoes League .
Only obtainable in the Raging Echoes League .
The dogsword Name Echo slash Energy used 50% Description Applies the effects of every godsword special attack at once. Only obtainable in the Raging Echoes League . Attack roll modifier 100% Damage roll modifier 37.5% Level 75
Only obtainable in the Raging Echoes League .
Sunlight spear Name Sol Slam Energy used None, consumes 7 Sunlight Stacks instead Description Hits all targets within three tiles of the player with typeless damage, and deals more damage based on the player's prayer bonus . Only obtainable in the Raging Echoes League . Attack roll modifier Skips roll; guaranteed hit Damage roll modifier 3% (additive) per 1 prayer bonus
Only obtainable in the Raging Echoes League .
Thunder khopesh Name Lingering Lightning Energy used 50% Description Deals two quick hits in succession, each with a 50% increased maximum hit. If either of these hits are successful, an additional lightning bolt is summoned that deals damage up to 225% of the player's maximum hit. Only obtainable in the Raging Echoes League .
Only obtainable in the Raging Echoes League .
Changes [ edit | edit source ]
Date Changes 9 March 2023 ( update | poll ) The special attack orb can now be used in PvP areas. 7 March 2019 ( update ) Clicking on the Special attack data orb will now activate your special attack if you are wielding a weapon which has one. 8 March 2018 ( update ) Another data orb has been added beside the minimap to display your current special attack energy. 29 May 2014 ( update ) The special attack button now shows the percentage of energy you've got and indicates whether you have enough to perform the special attack with your current weapon. 10 April 2014 ( update ) Special attack energy now restores while interfaces such as the bank are open. 3 April 2014 ( update ) Melee weapon special attacks now correctly utilise Slayer helm, Black mask & Salve amulet bonuses.
The special attack orb can now be used in PvP areas.
Clicking on the Special attack data orb will now activate your special attack if you are wielding a weapon which has one.
Another data orb has been added beside the minimap to display your current special attack energy.
The special attack button now shows the percentage of energy you've got and indicates whether you have enough to perform the special attack with your current weapon.
Special attack energy now restores while interfaces such as the bank are open.
Melee weapon special attacks now correctly utilise Slayer helm, Black mask & Salve amulet bonuses.
Trivia [ edit | edit source ]
Previously, within the game itself, weapons did not have names for their special attacks, nor were their effects documented; they were only found in the discontinued Knowledge Base on the RuneScape website. It was not until an update on 24 August 2017 that they were officially added in game after passing the poll question in Old School Content Poll 56: Quality of Life . For weapons released after the release of Old School RuneScape , Jagex created their own special attack names, while adopting some that were already on this article.
For weapons released after the release of Old School RuneScape , Jagex created their own special attack names, while adopting some that were already on this article.
During the Misthalin Mystery quest , Mandy uses the Bandos godsword special attack when slaying Abigale .
The stranger that may be encountered during Desert Treasure I is capable of using his dragon dagger 's special attack. He does not seem to be limited by a special attack bar and can even unleash consecutive special attacks per game tick .
See also [ edit | edit source ]
Enchanted bolts
Passive effect
v • t • e Combat Mechanics Combat Attack range Attack speed Auto Retaliate Autocast Combat triangle Special attacks Hitsplat Tanking Magical melee Magical ranged Ranged magic Ranged melee Typeless Maximum hit Maximum magic hit Maximum melee hit Maximum ranged hit Monster maximum hit Damage per second Damage per second/Melee Damage per second/Ranged Damage per second/Magic Mechanics Aggressiveness Buffs Elemental weakness Flinching Hit delay Retaliation Retreat Safespot Spawning Successful hit Maximum damage cap Flat armour Tolerance Wander radius PJ timer Red-X Other Single-way combat Multicombat area Singles-plus combat Player killing
Attack range
Attack speed
Auto Retaliate
Autocast
Combat triangle
Special attacks
Hitsplat
Tanking
Magical melee
Magical ranged
Ranged magic
Ranged melee
Typeless
Maximum magic hit
Maximum melee hit
Maximum ranged hit
Monster maximum hit
Damage per second/Melee
Damage per second/Ranged
Damage per second/Magic
Aggressiveness
Buffs
Elemental weakness
Flinching
Hit delay
Retaliation
Retreat
Safespot
Spawning
Successful hit
Maximum damage cap
Flat armour
Tolerance
Wander radius
PJ timer
Red-X
Single-way combat
Multicombat area
Singles-plus combat
Player killing
Combat
Mechanics
Pages with unsourced statements
Navigation menu
Personal tools
Not logged in
Talk
Contributions
Create account
Log in
Namespaces
Article
Discussion
Views
Read
Edit
Edit source
History
Refresh
Discord
Discord
Navigation
Main page
About us
Random page
Contact us
Donate
Recent changes
39m ago - MeneerPjoeterBliep
39m ago - Hewatt
54m ago - Hewatt
1h ago - WMC
Guides
Recent updates
List of quests
Achievement diaries
Combat achievements
Skill training
Money making
Calculators
DPS calculator
New player guide
User-created guides
Community
User help
Active discussions
OSRS Wiki Clan
Policies
More RuneScape
RuneScape Wiki
RSC Wiki
Dragonwilds Wiki
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Special pages
Printable version
Permanent link
Page information
New files
Browse properties
This page was last modified on 14 March 2025, at 03:20.
Content on this site is licensed under CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 ; additional terms apply . RuneScape and RuneScape Old School are the trademarks of Jagex Limited and are used with the permission of Jagex.
Privacy policy
About the Old School RuneScape Wiki
Disclaimers
Terms of Use
Contact Weird Gloop
Mobile view