Ironman Guide

Training Slayer on an ironman account is the sole way to upgrade some of the best-in-slot items. It is also an excellent method to make significant money and train combat skills. Many of the key worthwhile items are locked behind Slayer levels for Ironmen, such as the abyssal whip , dragon boots , trident of the seas , occult necklace and dragon hunter lance .

Duradel is generally the best Slayer master to use. Konar quo Maten should be used for every milestone task for the extra Slayer reward points .

Making cannonballs is not worthwhile for efficient Slayer training (except for smoke devils in some cases), because it is simply faster to complete a task without using a dwarf multicannon than making cannonballs and using one. Because of this, certain tasks which are decent on a main account, such as suqahs and kalphites , are not worth doing on an Ironman account, as they have no notable drops and offer mediocre experience rates without a cannon. Blocking suqahs and kalphites should be one of your first priorities as an ironman player.

Once you have completed hard tasks in the Morytania Diary , it is worthwhile to use the bonecrusher for tasks where you normally would not pick up the bones. Using the bonecrusher provides supplemental Prayer experience in the long run and also restores Prayer points when doing certain tasks in the Catacombs of Kourend. Bonecrusher charges can be easily sustained by the daily bonemeal reward from Robin .

For tasks you want to finish quickly (usually when prioritising Slayer points), it is recommended to wear the Expeditious bracelet , since it has a 25% chance to treat each kill as 2 kills towards the Slayer task. If you instead want to extend the task, a Bracelet of slaughter will have a 25% chance for a kill to not count towards the Slayer task

When using Slayer reward points, prioritise blocking and skipping poor tasks over unlocking perks and extensions. Unlock superior Slayer monsters, the Slayer helmet and the ability to craft Slayer rings first. If you are using Ranged often, consider unlocking Broader Fletching perk early on for the ability to fletch broad bolts .

Ring of wealth is a good choice for the ring slot before you have access to Fremennik rings, as it automatically collects coin drops from monsters.

Unless you want to get quicker Magic levels, use defensive casting when bursting tasks (such as dust devils ), since it gives more experience overall. If you are low on herb seeds , kill normal nechryael with melee instead of bursting Greater nechryael in the Catacombs of Kourend .

Before you can kill abyssal demons for the abyssal whip , train only Strength after you have 75 Attack (for Arclight ) and 70 Defence (for Barrows equipment ). Unless you want to hit combat level 100 sooner, for Duradel. Once you have obtained the abyssal whip, train on controlled until you have 99 Strength (if you haven't already), and after that train Attack and Defence.  If you have a kraken tentacle , use the excess abyssal whips for an abyssal tentacle .