[Minigame: Chat-channel]

TheChat-channelfeature (originallyClan Chat, also known asFriends Chat) was released on6 August2007, four days before thebackupupon whichOld School RuneScapeis based; it was the last update released before the backup was made.

Using chat channels, players can communicate with groups of other players across multiple worlds. They must prefix all messages with a forward slash (/) in order for them to be sent in the chat channel they are currently in. It is linked to the Friends Chat feature withinRuneScape; therefore, players onOld School RuneScapecan communicate with players onRuneScapevia chat channels and vice versa.

Using a channel[edit|edit source]

To enter a chat channel, players simply click on thebutton in the chat interface. Players can leave a chat at any time by using thebutton.

Note: after anupdateon14 May2018,free-to-playaccounts with a total level lower than 150 are unable to join or set up chats.

The name of the player hosting the channel must be entered in the message box. Once this is done, the player is able to send messages to other players in the channel by writing messages in thepublic chatbox with a slash before them.

The chat interface shows the name and creator of the channel the player is currently chatting on. In addition, each player in the channel (up to 500) is shown on a list, along with their channel rank and current world. Players not on the channel owner's friends list do not have a rank icon; players on the owner's friends list but not assigned any other rank have a friend icon; and each of the other ranks (except channel owner) are assigned by the owner to other players on their friends list.

Symbol | Rank

 | Friend

 | Recruit

 | Corporal

 | Sergeant

 | Lieutenant

 | Captain

 | General

 | Channel owner

 | Jagex Moderator

The interface also contains a button for players to enter or leave a channel. Note thatJagex moderatorshave powers equivalent to a channel owner if they come into a channel.

Players who are breaking rules in chat channels can bereportedusing the report abuse button as normal.

Creating a channel[edit|edit source]

Any player can create their own channel, using thebutton in the chat interface.

The player will then be presented with an interface that allows them to set ranks for people on their friends list and control who can enter, talk, and kick other players from the channel. They can also set the channel name (limited to 12 characters), which will appear on the side of the chat box to indicate something said on that channel.

Restricting channel access[edit|edit source]

Players can restrict who can use their channels via a few methods:

Players can set the "Who can enter chat?" rank to whatever they want to allow to enter. If they wish to only let their friends join, they can set it to "Any friends". If they only want to allow certain friends to join, they can set their channel to "Recruit+", and only rank the friends they wish to join recruit or above. If they do not want to add players to their friends list in order to let them join, they can select "Anyone".Players who wish to allow anyone apart from a select few people to join may add players to theirIgnore Listin order to prohibit them from joining their chat.If players wish to prevent a player from joining on a temporary basis, they may kick them from the channel. More details are mentioned in the "kicking/ban" section.If a player does not want anyone to join their channel at all (either temporarily or permanently), they can either disable their channel (by selecting 'disable' in the 'name' section) or set the "Who can enter chat?" to "Only me".

Kicking/banning[edit|edit source]

Players that hold a rank corporal or higher in the channel can be granted the kicking permission (by setting "Who can kick on chat?" to the respective rank). These players will be granted the ability to remove other players from the channel, and prevent them from joining again for 60 minutes. They may only kick players with a rank lower than theirs. For example, a general with kick power cannot kick other generals. Kicking a player will remove the player from the chat and receive a message sayingYou have been kicked from the channel.. Temporary bans from the channel will expire after 60 minutes, banned players trying to rejoin before then will receive a message sayingYou are temporarily banned from this chat-channel.. However, bans can be lifted earlier if the channel is 'reset', which occurs when the channel is completely empty.
Resetting can be performed in three different ways (ordered by difficulty):

The channel owner can disable the channel (as mentioned above) and then re-enable it.Ranks with the power to kick can remove everyone else from the channel then leave themselves.All channel members can organise themselves to leave the channel simultaneously, so that a period of time passes where the channel is completely empty.

Restrictions[edit|edit source]

Chat Channels have a capacity of 500 players. If a channel reaches this limit, and someone else tries to join, a player with a lower rank than the entering player will be 'bumped' from the channel and receive a message sayingYou have been removed from this channel.. They can then rejoin when there is enough room for them to join. If there are no lower-ranking players to remove, the player trying to join will receive a message telling them the channel is full.There may only be up to 400 people ranked within a chat at a single time. This is due to the friends list capacity of 400 players. If the owner does not have membership, only 200 people may be ranked.Only 400 people may be banned from a channel at a single time, due to the ignore list capacity. If the owner does not have membership, only 100 people can be banned.AJagex moderatorcan always join a chat, will always be able to chat on it, and can kick any player off the chat. The owner of the chat is free to give them any rank they wish within chat settings; however, they will always hold the rank of "Jagex Moderator" when logged into the channel.

