[Minigame: Emir%27s_Arena]

 | This is a safe PvP activity.You cannot bring any items in or out of this activity.If youdiehere, you will not lose any of your items, including those stored inside anItem Retrieval Service(deathbank).As a safe PvP activity it is safe forHardcore group ironplayers.

Emir's Arena





Released | 13 July2022(Update)

Also called | PvP Arena

Type | Minigame

Members | No

Location | Al Kharid

Leagueregion | Desert✓

Participants | 2+

Skills | Combat

Reward currency | N/A

Tutorial | No

Music | Shine,The Emir's Arena



Map



TheEmir's Arena, also known as theAl Kharid PvP Arena, is aminigamethat replaced theDuel Arena. The minigame gives players an opportunity to fight each other in a controlled environment, where matches take place on an alternative save game world against players of a similar skill level. Players will be able to register their interest in finding a fight; while a match is being prepared, players can continue with whatever they were doing prior.

It was soft-launched on6 July2022in order to have players stress-test the core systems used for the minigame, and was fully launched the next week on13 July.

History[edit|edit source]

The Emir's Arena is an ancient complex dating back to theSecond Age. It was discovered beneath the sand during the lateFifth Ageafter which archaeologists of theVarrock Museumexcavated it, before turning their attention to the excavation ofSaranthiumandSenntistenat theDigsite.

Following the excavation theEmirofAl Kharidhad it restored to its former glory, with the arena, once again, being used as a fighting ground. This attracted many participants and spectators, and it was not long before the arena turned into a place of gambling. Three officials:Maoma, captain of the Emir's guard,Koriff, the hostess of the arena, andSaikathe accountant of the arena, formed theCalamity Coven, where they abused their positions to rig matches, encourage betting and falsify accounts to earn themselves huge amounts of profit. The Coven was eventually found out and was dispelled, although under which circumstances are not known. Following this the Emir gave the place a new start, increased control and heightened security to avoid similar incidents in the future.

Layout[edit|edit source]

Arena Guard Yon paces near the entrance gate, and will inform players about the arena. Players will arrive here if they use thering of duelingteleport.

The welcome centre is right next to the entrance, and featuresMubariz, who runs thePvP Arena Rewardsshop.

The northern part of the arena features the hospital, where players can speak to the staff to heal to full health. Players with 99Hitpointscan speak toSurgeon General Tafanito buy thecape. Players can also climb the stairs on official Arena worlds (see below) to match with other players.

Attached to the hospital is achapel, where the player can restore theirPrayer points. There is a monk namedHamidwho roams the chapel, who players speak to during ahard clue scrollstep.

East of the hospital is the Emir's Arena bank, which featuresFadli, the banker, as well asChris, who runs a lost properties shop. In addition to allowing players to bank and collect items, Fadli also sellsrotten tomatoes.

Combat areas[edit|edit source]

There are four combat areas in the Arena, each with a spectator walkway above them. Players can look in on in-progress fights, or watchNPCsfight on non-Arena worlds.

Official worlds[edit|edit source]

Players can only participate in ranked activites within the Emir's Arena on designatedworlds, as they use a separate profile from the player's profile in the main game. Legacy duels work like theDuel Arenaused to, bar the staking aspect.

World | Location | Members | Activity

348 | United States (west) | 1 | PvP Arena (Legacy Duels)

379 | United Kingdom | 0 | PvP Arena (Legacy Duels)

479 | United States (east) | 1 | PvP Arena (Legacy Duels)

483 | United States (east) | 0 | PvP Arena (Legacy Duels)

506 | United Kingdom | 1 | PvP Arena (Legacy Duels)

558 | United Kingdom | 1 | PvP Arena (UK)

570 | Australia | 1 | PvP Arena (AUS)

571 | Australia | 0 | PvP Arena (Legacy Duels)

578 | United States (east) | 1 | PvP Arena (US)

Gameplay[edit|edit source]

Matching[edit|edit source]

Players can find matches via the PvP Arena button in thegroupingtab or thearena recruitment board, where they can register for either a 1v1 Tournament or 1v1 Duel where the game decides who they fight against.

Once the match is ready, players will be notified that it's time to fight, and be prompted toworld hopto a designated world, giving players enough time to get to a safe place and hop.

Account Builds[edit|edit source]

Because fights take place on an alternative save game world, the player's standard game profile is left behind, along with their levels and items. To succeed in the Arena, players should be familiar withplayer killing mechanicsas well as can adapt their playstyle across multipleplayer killing buildsbased on what the audience craves the most. The crowds' preferences change on a weekly basis, requiring players to use one of the following builds:

Build | Attack | Strength | Defence | Hitpoints | Ranged | Magic | Prayer

Max/Med | 75 | 99 | 70 | 99 | 99 | 99 | 77

Zerker | 60 | 99 | 45 | 99 | 99 | 99 | 55

1 Def Pure | 60 | 99 | 1 | 99 | 99 | 99 | 52

Equipment[edit|edit source]

As well as mastering various builds, players will have to select which items to take into battle via the PvP Arena Supplies interface. Players can tailor their equipment and inventory to their liking via the supplies chest inside the Arena's hospital, of which there are nearly 400 items to choose from, including equipment exclusively used for the minigame, such asCalamity armourand wrappedCulinaromancer's gloves.

The Supplies interface can also be accessed whilst preparing for a match on the upper level of the hospital. Players can only use equipment that their assigned account build can wear, so they'll need to know which items work best for whichever build is currently in rotation.

The rotations occur before the weekly game update, which is between Tuesday and Wednesday from midnight to 1 a.m. (dependent on the current time standard in the UK). The rotation will only affect ranked duels; other types of duels may be fought with players' choice of loadout.

The current active build in the rotation isMax/Med.(update)Examples of equipment and items for each build:

Types of fights[edit|edit source]

1v1 Tournaments[edit|edit source]

In 1v1 Tournaments, players participate in a series of 1v1 fights in succession. Players can let the game form a tournament group for them, selected from the pool of available participants, or have a go at organising one manually (note that there are no rewards for participating in manually organised events).

To enter a Tournament, simply register interest via the PvP Arena side-panel. Once enough players have signed up, the game will proceed to create a 1v1 Tournament for successful applicants.

Each Tournament consists of anywhere from 4 to 64 players, with each round being split until there are only two participants left! Here's how this might look for a Tournament of 16 players:

16 players are divided into eight 1v1 battlesThe eight winners from the first round then fight in four 1v1 battlesThe four winners from the second round then fight in two 1v1 battlesThe final two winners then fight each other for the victory.

Players will receive Rank and Reward Points based on how they placed in the tournament.

1v1 Duels[edit|edit source]

1v1 Duels are one-off battles where the game will automatically pit players against an opponent of similar rank.

Just like tournaments, the winner of a ranked 1v1 Battle will receive Rank Points and 16 Reward Points. Losing a battle awards 12 Reward Points instead.

In unranked duels, players can choose who to fight, but there are no rewards for doing so; challenge areas are identified upon entering by a battleaxe () which appears in the bottom right hand corner of theinterface, during a duel this is changed to a skull ().

Legacy Duels[edit|edit source]

Players within the arena bounds can engage in safe 1-vs-1 combat in so-called legacy duels. In order to start a duel in the legacy mode, players have to right-click on the selected opponent and choose theChallengeoption.

The gameplay of the legacy mode is similar to the replacedDuel Arenawith a few notable differences:

Players can no longer stakecoinsduring the fights. As such, the Duel Arena tax was also removed.Combat takes place in the designated Emir's Arena maps rather than the shared Duel Arena combat area.When challenging another player, the following warning appears in the chat:As this is an unofficial duel, you will not receive rank or reward points for participating.

The win and loss counts within the legacy mode are stored separately for each player, and they do not affect the main minigame. The initial values for each player were copied from the originalDuel Arenakill and death counts.

Legacy Duels at the Emir's Arena are restricted to the specific 'Legacy Duels' theme worlds. Attempting to challenge a player on a non-dedicated world yields the following message:Please use one of the designated Legacy Duels worlds.

When a player accepts a challenge, it opens up the duelling options screen, which defines the parameters and restrictions for the battle. The screen shows the name,Combat leveland combat skills items of the opponent, as well as player's currently worn items. There are 12 different options that can be turned on or off and are adjustable by either player. These are detailed as follows:

NoRanged: No rangedweaponrycan be equipped during the battle.NoMelee: Players cannot engage in hand-to-handcombat, including bare fists/feet.NoMagic: No magical attackspellscan be cast.No Special Attacks:Special attackscan not be used.Fun Weapons: The only allowed weapons are those with negative attack stats, such as theRubber chicken,Flowers,Birthday cake, rubber mouse toy, andGolden tench. Bare fists/feet are not allowed.No Forfeit: Players cannot escape the arena; the fight lasted until one player dies.No Drinks: Players cannot drink anything that boosts stats, such aspotions. All stats that were boosted prior to the fight were reset to their default values once the fight begins.NoFood: Eatingfoodto heal is not allowed, includingSaradomin brews.NoPrayer:Using thePrayerskill is not allowed.No Movement: Players cannot walk orrunduring the battle.No Weapon Switch: Players cannot switch their weapons during the battle.Show Inventories: Both players can inspect the inventory and worn items of their opponent before the duel.

It is also possible to select and disable specific equipment slots on this screen by clicking on the worn items section. Rangers should be careful not to check offshieldif they intend to use a bow.

Some of the options couldn't be combined; for instance, having no Ranged, Melee, or Magic makes it impossible to fight.

A player can save the duel options and load it as a preset, allowing them to quickly select specific options for their duel.

The 5 different options are:

Save as preset: Saved the current choice of options and saved it as a preset.Load preset: Loaded the preset that the player saved.Load last duel: Loaded the last duels options."Whip": Only allowed the use of any one-handed weapon, no armour permitted."Boxing": No weapons or armour permitted.

Rewards[edit|edit source]

Upon completing a match, players are returned to where they were upon joining. Winning awards rank points and reward points, and losing will deduct rank points.

Rank pointsare used to determine the player's rank. When finding a fight, the matchmaking system will try to match players with one with a similar Rank. The more points players have, the higher their Rank is.Reward pointsare used to purchase rewards from the reward shop.

Rank and Reward points can only be scored by participating in a fight generated by the game. There are no rewards for participating in manually organised events. Reward points are capped at 15,000.

At the entrance to the arena, tradeMubarizto purchasePvP Arena Rewards:

Note, the player must be on an ordinary world to access the PvP Arena Rewards shop.

Scroll of imbuing- an alternative method of imbuing items, similar to the imbuing rewards from theNightmare ZoneandSoul Wars Reward Shop.Blighted surge sack- allows players within the Wilderness to cast anysurge spellswithout needing the required runes.

Scrapped rewards[edit|edit source]

During the initialDeveloper's Blog, some rewards were proposed, but were later scrapped entirely:

Amulet of souls- an item granting +10 in all Attack bonuses, +15 in all Defence bonuses, a +8 Strength bonus, and a +5 Prayer bonus.Created via combining anamulet of fury,onyx, and an amulet of souls scroll, the amulet would have been only usable within the Wilderness, and charged withdeathandsoul runes.While wearing the charged amulet, if players took damage from an opponent that would have killed them, they would be resurrected with five hitpoints remaining, withpoisonandvenomcured if they were inflicted with either. This effect could only be used every fifteen minutes.Thaw potion- a potion created via combining anunfinished dwarf weed potionwith awhite lilyand a flame rose (purchased from the reward shop)Drinking the thaw potion would grant players ten seconds of immunity to spells that bound players in place, such asSnareandIce spells. However, they can only be used every two minutes.

Other rewards were polled in theRewards for Beneath Cursed Sands & PvP Arenapoll, which required players to have at least 20 player kills in the Wilderness or PvP worlds, as well as one win from theLast Man Standingminigame.

Ornament kits fordagon'hai robes,dragon claws,dragon warhammer,heavy ballista,elder maul,elder chaos druid robes,Armadyl armour, andBandos armour.Wristbands of the arena- gives the same stats asBarrows gloveswith a level 20 Defence requirement, but can only be used in PvP. Could beimbuedto require level 40 Defence and improved Attack bonuses.Centurion cuirass- gives similar stats to theFighter torsowith a level 40 Defence requirement, but can only be used in PvP.A left-click teleport item similar in function to theroyal seed pod.Humble ChivalryandHumble Piety, lesser variants ofChivalryandPietywith an additional level 40 Defence requirement.Calamity armour- a set of armour similar in function toVoid Knight equipment, with matching helmets for melee, ranged, and magic.

After the first poll had all its rewards fail despite the restricted nature of the poll, a revisedDeveloper's Blogwas released aiming to address player feedback with the proposed rewards. It was then polled in thePvP Arena Rewards v2, with a similar set of restrictions in voting.

The same rewards were polled, except the humble prayers and left-click teleport item. All but the imbue scroll and spell sacks failed the poll. As a compromise, the Calamity armour and wrapped Culinaromancer's gloves, were added in as equipment usable only within the minigame's equipment chests.

Ranking[edit|edit source]

Players have a rank that starts at 2,500, and can increase or decrease depending on their performance each game. Thearena recruitment boardshows one's own rank within the arena. The maximum possible rank is 15,000.

Title | Range

Bronze I | 0-249

Bronze II | 250-499

Bronze III | 500-749

Bronze IV | 750-999

Iron I | 1,000-1,249

Iron II | 1,250-1,499

Iron III | 1,500-1,749

Iron IV | 1,750-1,999

Steel I | 2,000-2,249

Steel II | 2,250-2,499

Steel III | 2,500-2,749

Steel IV | 2,750-2,999

Mithril I | 3,000-3,249

Mithril II | 3,250-3,499

Mithril III | 3,500-3,749

Mithril IV | 3,750-3,999

Adamant I | 4,000-4,249

Adamant II | 4,250-4,499

Adamant III | 4,500-4,749

Adamant IV | 4,750-4,999

Rune I | 5,000-5,249

Rune II | 5,250-5,499

Rune III | 5,500-5,749

Rune IV | 5,750-5,999

Dragon | 6,000-6,999

Dragon Elite | 7,000-7,999

Dragon Master | 8,000-8,999

Dragon Grandmaster | 9,000-15,000

