[Minigame: Forestry]

Forestry





Released | 28 June2023(Update)

Members | No

Location | Various

Leagueregion | N/A

Skills | Woodcutting

Reward currency | Anima-infused bark



Forestry: The Way of the Forester[1]is a social-focused expansion to coreWoodcutting, announced during theWinter Summit 2022. It aims to make Woodcutting a more social experience by "removing resource competition, introducing new events, and expanding the skill's economic offerings". All of these features can be found within Gielinor, wherever trees are, excluding theWoodcutting Guild.

The expansion waspolledwith 90.7% of the votes in favour of its addition. The first phase was released on 28 June 2023, and the second phase was released on 25 October 2023.

Official worlds[edit|edit source]

Forestry events can be encountered on anyworld, but dedicated worlds are more likely to have a larger amount of players at popular tree-cutting areas. Additionally, there is a ForestryChat-channelbased in world 444 for sharingForestry strategies and information, which follows conventions for calling out Forestry events.

World | Location | Members | Activity

388 | Australia | 1 | Forestry

398 | Germany | 0 | Forestry

434 | United States (west) | 0 | Forestry

444 | United States (west) | 1 | Forestry

487 | United States (east) | 1 | Forestry

510 | United Kingdom | 1 | Forestry

Core Woodcutting changes[edit|edit source]

Forestry introduces several changes to core Woodcutting gameplay, affecting most trees in bothmembersandfree-to-playworlds. These changes include:

Players chopping the same tree will be given aninvisible Woodcutting bonus. Each player will receive a +1 boost to Woodcutting for each player at the tree, up to a maximum of +10 with ten players. This bonus does not get applied whilst chopping a normaltree, whilst in theWoodcutting Guild, or any tree grown throughFarming[2].Rather than trees having a chance to deplete any time a resource is gathered from one, trees will now deplete on a timer that activates after the first cut. The timer regenerates if players stop cutting the tree before it's fully chopped. Trees grown through Farming are not affected by Forestry timers. The timer's length is based on the average time each different type of tree currently lasts when grown through Farming:

Tree | Despawn time | Respawn time

Oak tree | 27 seconds | 8.4 seconds

Willow tree | 30 seconds | 8.4 seconds

Teak tree | 30 seconds | 9 seconds

Maple tree | 1 minute | 35.4 seconds

Hollow tree | 36 seconds | 25.8 seconds

Mahogany tree | 1 minute | 8.4 seconds

Arctic pine tree | 1 minute, 24 seconds | 8.4 seconds

Yew tree | 1 minute, 54 seconds | 59.4 seconds

Magic tree | 3 minutes, 54 seconds | 1 minute, 59.4 seconds

Redwood tree | 4 minutes, 24 seconds | 1 minute, 59.4 seconds

Forestry kit[edit|edit source]

Players can start their Forestry journey by obtaining aForestry kitfrom theFriendly Forester'sForestry Shopfor free. This is an equipable item for members and free-to-play players alike. It can store all tools, resources, and gear needed for Forestry, but these are only available to members (except for the reward currency which can be collected by free-to-play players but can only be used to purchaseFelling axe handles).

Once members have the kit, they can store certain items in it, most of which are tradeable:

Anima-infused bark- The reward currency obtained by completing Forestry events, which can be used by members, alongside various logs, to purchase rewards from the Forestry Shop.Forester's ration- Enables the passive effect offelling axes; players can receive extra logs and/or extra experience without receiving a log.Secateurs attachment- Roughly doubles the amount of leaves players receive from chopping trees.Nature offerings- Gives a 50-60% chance to receive an additional log. This chance can rise up to 80% if cutting the same tree with 10+ players.Tree leaves- Combined with cooked meat or fish to createforester's rations. If the Forestry kit is equipped or in the inventory, leaves gathered from Woodcutting will automatically be stored there.Lumberjack/Forestry outfit- Outfits can be stored inside the kit to receive their benefits without needing to wear it if theclothes pouchis used on the kit.Woodcutting cape- The skill cape can be stored inside to receive its benefit without needing to wear it if thecape pouchis used on the kit.

Mechanics and Eligibility[edit|edit source]

Spawn Mechanics[edit|edit source]

Forestry events can occur whilst gathering logs in the overworld, excluding certain tree types such asregular trees,burnt trees,hollow trees,player-grown trees, theblisterwood tree, and trees within the Woodcutting Guild. Events can spawn anywhere that there are eligible tree types, even in impractical locations such as theWildernessorEntrana. All players can interact with these events, regardless of whether they are chopping the same tree. However, reward eligibility may vary (see below). The experience and difficulty of events scale based on the number of players present, and at least one player with a Forestry kit is required for events to spawn. There is a 40-120 second buffer between events if players choose to chop the same tree for longer durations.

When a player with a Forestry kit begins cutting a tree, an event is randomly selected from a table of equally weighted options. The event may either be scheduled to spawn during the tree's lifetime, with a random moment chosen along its despawn timer, or immediately after the tree has been felled. A final roll at the designated time determines whether the event spawns, with odds based on the type of tree and the number of participants. The likelihood of spawning doubles for groups of ten or more players compared to a solo chopper, though it is unclear if each participant must possess a Forestry kit. Events cannot spawn within a 61x61 tile area (a 30-tile radius) if another Forestry event is already in progress.

Event and Reward Eligibility[edit|edit source]

Rewards for an event (including anima bark, full experience, and unique Forestry items) will only be granted ifbothof the following are true. Otherwise, the chat will showAs you weren't chopping near the event when it started, you aren't eligible for full rewards.(except for theFriendly Ent event).

The event must spawn within 30 tiles of the last two tree locations on which the player performed askilling rollin the last three minutes (including on non-Forestry trees such as player-grown or regular trees).After the event spawns, the player must not lose eligibility by chopping new trees outside of the 30-tile range before starting the event.

Skilling rolls for Woodcutting take place every 4ticks(2.4 seconds); failing a skilling roll means the player will not yet receive a log, but is still eligible for events. Note that chopping a tree, stopping, and then chopping it again will mean that both of your last two tree locations are the same individual tree.

Multispottingcan be used to increase eligible events per hour.

Forestry events[edit|edit source]

There are nine possible event types. Players who are infree-to-playworlds can only spawn theStruggling sapling,Rising roots, andFriendly ent events, but players inmemberworlds can access all of the events listed below.

Events grant Woodcutting experience scaling with the player's Woodcutting level, including visibleWoodcutting boosts(even past 99); thus using anydragon axespecial attackwhen the event spawns will result in slightly more experience.

A comparison of rewards for each event can be seen under theForestry guide.

Rising Roots[edit|edit source]

During this event, choppabletree rootswill appear around the tree for a set amount of time. Chopping the roots gives both Woodcutting experience andanima-infused bark.

After a while, an anima-infused root (appearing green-trimmed) will emerge, providing more Woodcutting experience as well as a higher amount of anima-infused bark, scaling with the player's Woodcutting level. It is always beneficial to find and chop the anima-infused root as it moves around. The roots can also be cut via the2-tick Woodcutting method, but players cannot double-roll them.

Struggling Sapling[edit|edit source]

Astruggling saplingappears in place of a felled tree. Several resource piles will appear (droppings,green leaves,rotting leaves,splintered bark, andwild mushrooms) that can be used to createmulchthat helps the sapling grow. Players must collect from any resource piles three times to create mulch. The order in which they are collected determines the nutritional value of the mulch and players can also make mulch from the same resource pile multiple times. When adding mulch to the sapling, if the correct pile is in the correct slot order, a message will appear saying that the sapling loves it (e.g., "The sapling seems to love [resource] as the [first/second/third] ingredient". By default, mulch has 10% nutritional value, and gains an additional 30% for each correct resource. Feeding the sapling mulch gives Woodcutting and Farming experience as well as anima-infused bark based on the nutritional value of the mulch.

The event will end once the sapling has either reached full health or its blue timer runs out. Successfully growing the sapling to athriving saplingresults in bonus experience, anima-infused bark, and 20 leaves of a random tier. If a player was not present in the area when the event spawns, they will not receive the bonus at the end of the event. Such players can still receive rewards for feeding mulch to the struggling sapling. However, failing to feed the struggling sapling will result in no bonus and a message that says,The sapling withers due to a lack of nutrients.

Flowering Tree[edit|edit source]

Flowering bushesand several swarms offriendly beesappear. The bushes come in eight colours: red, blue, green, yellow, orange, pink, white, and lilac.

Out of the eight bushes, only one pair will be able to exchangestrange pollen. Once players find a bush that gives one, it can be used to pollinate the other bush. Each time players tend-to the bushes, they will receive one to two anima bark and Woodcutting experience scaled to their Woodcutting level. After about 40 seconds, the current pair becomesstrange bushesand disappear, and another pair of bushes will be able to exchange pollen for a total of 5 pairs per event. Only one pair out of the five bush pairs that spawn will need tending-to for receiving bonus bark, strange fruit/seeds, and Woodcutting experience awarded at the end.

Woodcutting Leprechaun[edit|edit source]

AWoodcutting Leprechaunappears, though the event does not directly reward the player with any experience. The Leprechaun will act as abank deposit box, banking the player's logs for free from either the inventory, alog basket, orForestry basket.

There are sixEnd of Rainbowsthat periodically appear around the area. Standing on them will temporarily increase the amount of anima bark and Woodcutting experience, scaling to the player’s Woodcutting level and depending on the type of tree chopped that spawned the event.

After 50-70 seconds have passed, the leprechaun will despawn.[3]Players currently talking to the leprechaun won't be able to make a deposit after he disappears. Before leaving, he will exclaimI'll have to go shortly...giving players 38 ticks (22.8s) to use his services before he moves on.

Beehive[edit|edit source]

Abee keeperandwild beehivewill appear nearby, alongsideunfinished beehives. Players must finish building the bee hive by using the logs they've gathered. Once the beehive is built, it will disappear and another unfinished one will appear shortly; up to six will appear for the event.

To be eligible for obtaining sturdy beehive parts, players only need to contribute at least one log per unfinished bee hive.

A small amount ofConstructionexperience and anima-infused bark is given when a bee hive is built. Players then receive a larger bonus of Woodcutting experience, anima bark at the end, and a 2/3 chance to obtainsturdy beehive partsthat can be used to build abeehivein aplayer-owned house(after collecting 10 beehive parts).

Friendly Ent[edit|edit source]

A group of fiveentlingswill appear, asking for help in stylishly pruning their leaves. Each will exclaim how they'd like their leaves pruned (ex.Breezy at the back!), which indicates the option players must pick when right-clicking them ("Prune-top", "Prune-back", and "Prune-sides").

Players must prune an entling several times until they exclaim that they're satisfied. If players select the wrong pruning option or attempt to prune apruned entling, they will stun the player for several seconds.

Request | Prune

Breezy at the back! | Back

A leafy mullet! | Top and sides

Short back and sides! | Back and sides

Short on top! | Top

Every pruned entling will grant some Woodcutting experience and anima-infused bark, along with both bonus Woodcutting experience and anima bark at the end of the event based on the player's activity. Members will additionally receive a random assortment of tree leaves and some Fletching experience (scaled to their current level). Each fully pruned entling gives eligible players a 20% chance of receiving an egg nest. This means if all 5 entlings are satisfied, there is a 100% chance of spawning an individual egg nest on the ground (rather than in the player's inventory), as long as eligible members prune an entling at least once. Players will still receive an egg nest if they incorrectly pruned an entling.

Poachers[edit|edit source]

Threepoachersand aFrightened Foxappear. The poachers will attempt to trap the fox with 14fox trapsand players must disarm them whenever the poachers lay them.

Every fox trap that the player disarms will grant somehunterexperience andanima-infused bark. Players near the event-spawning tree must work together and disarm the fox traps, otherwise, the fox will die if caught in a trap three times. This will result in no bonus Woodcutting experience along with no bonus anima bark. In addition, players will receive the chat message stating,Unfortunately you weren't able to save the fox from the poachers...

Upon saving the fox from the poachers' 14 or 15 traps, players who participated and disarmed at least one trap will be awarded bonus Woodcutting experience and anima bark at the end of the event. Additionally, there is a 1/30 chance to receive afox whistlewhich can be used on abeaverpetto enable it to transform into afox petat will.

Enchantment Ritual[edit|edit source]

ADryadand fiveritual circleswill appear. The Dryad will need help completing a magical ritual and will periodically summon ritual circles with colours (red, green, blue, yellow) and shapes (square, star, triangle, hexagon).

Among the group of five ritual circles that spawn, players must stand on the ritual circle that has a unique shape and colour within 15 seconds. The Dryad will spawn eight groups of these circles before completing the ritual. There are no pass or fail mechanics during this event; this is merely how many unique circles the player can spot during the two minutes of the event. Every ritual circle the player stands on grants Woodcutting experience and anima-infused bark according to the player's Woodcutting level.

At the end of the event, players who stood on at least one circle will receive bonus Woodcutting experience and anima bark. Rewards are scaled on how many circles the player correctly stood on as well as their Woodcutting level. Additionally, there is a 1/30 chance to receive aPetal garland, a cosmetic necklace.

Pheasant Control[edit|edit source]

TheFreaky Foresterand somePheasant Nestswill appear. Players must retrieve apheasant eggfrom an unoccupied nest and give it to the Freaky Forester. If the player is too slow in delivering the egg, thepheasantwill notice the player stealing the egg and stun them for several seconds. In addition, players may only carry one pheasant egg at a time.

Every egg the player delivers will grant some Thieving and some Woodcutting experience and anima-infused bark, with bonus Woodcutting experience and bark at the end of the event, based on the player's activity. Additionally, there is a 1/2 chance to receive somepheasant tail feathers, which can be made into apheasant costumeusing aneedleandthread.

Additionally, there is a chance to receive agolden pheasant eggwhilst stealing eggs from the nests. The rate of receiving the golden pheasant egg scales between 1/900 to 1/450 from level 1 to 99 Woodcutting, respectively. The golden pheasant egg can be used on abeaverpetto enable it to transform into apheasant petat will.

Rewards[edit|edit source]

While participating in events, the following rewards may be obtained, but only if the player is eligible for the full rewards of an event:[4]

Golden pheasant egg- An item that allows the player to transmute their beaver pet into aPheasant (pet).Fox whistle- An item that allows the player to transmute their beaver pet into aFox (pet).Petal garland- A cosmetic flower necklacePheasant tail feathers, used to create thepheasant costumeSturdy beehive parts, used to build abeehivein thePlayer-owned house.

Aside from those, players can spend theanima-infused barkobtained through Forestry on various items in theForestry Shop, which is run by theFriendly Forester.

Log basket- An item that can store up to 28 logs.Lumberjack outfit-Skilling equipmentthat boosts Woodcutting experience by 2.5% when wearing the full set.Forestry outfit- A cosmetic variant of the lumberjack outfitLog brace- An item used to create thesturdy harness, which is then used to combine the log basket and forestry kit into aforestry basket.Clothes pouch blueprint- An item used to craftclothes pouches.Felling axe handle- An item used to createfelling axes.Funky shaped log- An item given to a beaver pet to unlockmetamorphosisoptions.Secateurs blade- An item used to createSecateurs attachments.Sawmill voucher- An item that can be redeemed for an extra plank per log cut at thesawmill, or when using thePlank Makespell.Ritual mulch- An item used to createnature offerings.Twitcher's gloves- An item that allows the wearer a greater chance of receiving a desired type of nest.

