[Minigame: Raids]

Raidsare group activities formembersin which the goal of the player(s) is to defeat several mini-bosses before reaching the final boss of the raid to claim their rewards, which include multiple best-in-slot equipment in the entire game. Due to the high-level nature of raids and enemies being weak to specific styles, it is generally required to bring equipment for all three combat styles.

All raids take place in an instance, with theChambers of Xeric(barringChallenge Mode) having a randomly generated arrangement. All three raids have a hard mode variant to them, and theTheatre of BloodandTombs of Amascutboth have easier, entry mode variants as well.

Raids scale based on the following:

Chambers of Xeric - party size's overall combat stats determine the health and combat levels of enemies in the encounter, while party's overall skill stats determines resources and skill challenge requirements.Theatre of Blood - party size determines overall health of enemies in raid - if attempted in a solo or duo scale, enemies' health is scaled to trio scale.Tombs of Amascut - active raid invocations determines overall combat stats and health of enemies in raid. Party size, in groups higher than solo scale, also determine enemies' health.

Raids can be identified with a brown stariconon themap.

List of raids[edit|edit source]

There are currently three raids, theChambers of Xeric, theTheatre of Blood, and theTombs of Amascut. Each one features its own unique mechanics that make the three raids very different in practice to one another, with different balances of combat, puzzles, and skilling encounters, as well as different amounts of customisability and difficulty levels.

Raid | Date Released | Description | Requirements | Unique Mechanics

 | 5 January2017 | Explore a large cave system underneathMount Quidamortembuilt byXeric. | N/A | A randomly generated arrangement of combat and non-combat encounters mean each raid is different from the last. Up to 100 players may challenge the raid per instance. Players must clear their way through two floors of enemies and/or skilling challenges before a confrontation with theGreat Olm, the final enemy of the raid.Challenge Modeis also available for players wishing for a harder encounter, with all twelve potential rooms being placed in a set order, and enemies have higher stats.The Chambers of Xeric is currently the only raid that requires some skilling proficiency for an optimal experience.

 | 7 June2018 | Survive the blood sports of thevampyresinMeiyerditch. | Priest in Peril | Unlike the other raids, the Theatre of Blood features only combat encounters, with five mini-bosses leading up to the confrontation withVerzik Vitur, previously thestrongest monsterinOld School RuneScape.The Theatre of Blood includes a Hard Mode as well as an Entry Mode. Up to five players may challenge the raid in all modes. Entry Mode is a beginner's introduction to the raid with the mechanics made more friendly for them, albeit at the cost of less rewards and no chance of obtaining rare rewards.Hard Modeis offered for players who have completed the raid at least once in normal mode, modifying the bosses' mechanics to make them more challenging.

 | 24 August2022 | Fight your way through Amascut's thralls inside theJaltevas Pyramid. | Beneath Cursed Sands | A uniqueinvocationsystem allows players to scale the raid to the difficulty level of their choice, by selecting which challenging mechanics they want to tackle, which determines the raid's difficulty, presented as Entry, Normal and Expert mode. Up to eight players may attempt the raid. These invocations range from inventory restrictions to additional or modified special attacks from the bosses, to time and respawn limits. Additionally, players can choose to attempt each of the four mini-bosses and their respective puzzle rooms in any order they wish, with the four paths of the raid stretching out from a central nexus, before they can unlock the lower level where they can face the final bosses,Tumeken's WardenandElidinis' Warden, also in the order they choose.