[Minigame: Temple_Trekking]

 | This is a dangerous activity in aninstance.Ondeath,Hardcore Ironmenwill  lose their status.Unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance.Items left on the ground will always be lost.

Temple Trekking





Released | 28 March2006(Update)

Also called | Burgh de Rott Ramble

Type | Minigame

Members | Yes

Location | Paterdomus&Burgh de Rott

Leagueregion | Morytania✓

Participants | 1

Skills | Combat,Woodcutting,Firemaking,Cooking

Reward currency | Reward token

Tutorial | No

Music | Distant Land



Map



Temple Trekkingis amembers-onlyminigamein which the player must escort victims ofvampyrerule fromBurgh de RottthroughMorytaniato thePaterdomus, the temple onRiver Salve, on the way guiding them through the swamp while defending them from dangerous packs of monsters, some unique to this minigame.Burgh de Rott Rambleis the reverse route in which the player escorts mercenaries from the Paterdomus to Burgh de Rott.

The difficulty of the trek is determined based on the follower chosen. A successful trek will result in areward tokenbeing given to the player, which can be redeemed for a variety of rewards.

Getting there[edit|edit source]

There are several ways to reachBurgh de Rottquickly, where the minigame may be started. Some of these include:

UsingMorytania legs 3's teleport to Burgh de RottUsing aMort'ton teleportscrollUsing theShades of Mort'tonminigame teleport and running southFairy ringcodeBIP(with 50Agility) takes you to the southern end of the swampUsing aBarrows teleport (tablet)and walking south-west. This is a much cheaper alternative to the Mort'ton teleport.Kharyrll Teleport(requires completion ofDesert Treasure Iand 66Magic)Using aplayer-owned housewith a Kharyrll TeleportTeleport to theSlayer Towerjust north of Canifis using aslayer ringFairy ringcodeCKS(Canifis)Ectophialand running west to CanifisWalking fromVarrockDrakan's medallionto Ver Sinhaza

Mechanics[edit|edit source]

 | Temple Trekking - Danger!





 | Temple Trekking - Dangerous Event Completed!





 | Temple Trekking - Failure...





 | Temple Trekking - Completed!





The difficulty of either minigame is determined by whether the player chooses weaker or stronger NPCs (called followers) to escort and whether the player chooses to take easier or harder paths through Morytania. Escorting weaker followers means a greater number of monsters will attack when a monster attack event occurs. Taking harder paths means the monsters will have higher combat levels when a monster attack event occurs.

A trek succeeds if the player and follower reach the destination, whereupon the player receives a reward. A trek fails if the player or follower is killed. A trek is aborted if the player chooses the escape path or teleports out of the minigame at any time. ATemple Trekking signand aBurgh de Rott Ramble signcan be found at their respective ends of the trail, listing the number of escorted NPCs.

Several events are likely to occur in each trek. There are three types of events: friendly events in which the player and follower can be healed and have their defences raised, combat events inmulticombat areain which monsters attempt to attack the player and follower, and puzzle events, typically involve overcoming terrain obstacles, that the player must solve. All combat and some puzzle events are dangerous.

These two activities provide opportunities to cross-train in most skills. Combat experience (includingPrayer) is gained during battle events. Monster drops and minigame rewards provide some of the staple materials used inCrafting,Cooking,Farming,Fletching,Herblore,Runecraft, andSmithing, while tomes of experience can be awarded forAgility,Firemaking,Fishing,Mining,Slayer,Thieving, andWoodcutting. Players can also pick up pieces ofLumberjack clothing, which are found only in this minigame or theForestry Shop.

Since the player loses if the follower is killed, one basic tactic in most combat events is for the player to shield the follower from monsters. This means the player must tank fairly strong melee enemies for the follower, avoiding that they take damage. There are two practical strategies to achieve this:

Wear high-defence melee armour. This helps protect the player from the monsters' attacks. This strategy means that the player should typically use melee, as the melee armour will interfere with using Ranged or Magic.Use protectionPrayers. Most monsters attack with melee, soProtect from Meleecan be used.Giant snailsattack with Ranged, soProtect from Missilescan also be used. When using Prayer, any combat style can be used against most monsters, although generally melee is most effective. If using Magic,Ancient Magicksare recommended, as some spells can damage a group of monsters.

Players may not take any pet into this minigame.

Supplying your follower[edit|edit source]

A follower can hold 15 items of food in their backpack, also called theFollower Inventory. They will retain items from one trip to the next. The Follower Inventory is used by all followers, so anything given to one is available to all followers, regardless of difficulty and location.

It is a good idea to fill their pack before starting a trek, while talking to them, and before agreeing to escort them.

To fill their pack, use a food item on them. They will "open their backpack" which opens the Follower Inventory, containing a complete list of food items they will accept and spaces remaining. The follower inventory can only be filled with the items listed below before the trip. If desired, food can also be taken back out if it has just been put in.

After giving food to the follower it is recommended to then return to the bank to retrieve additional food for the trip. Once ready, restart the dialogue and agree to escort them.

Items that followers accept:

Item | Heals | GE Price | GP per heal

 | Thin snail meat | 5–7 | 193 | 27.57–38.60

 | Lean snail meat | 6–8 | 2,524 | 420.67–315.50

 | Fat snail meat | 7–9 | 2,054 | 293.43–228.22

 | Salmon | 9 | 65 | 7.22

 | Stew | 11 | 46 | 4.18

 | Cooked slimy eel | 6–10 | 46 | 4.60–7.67

 | Cooked meat | 3 | 94 | 31.33

 | Tuna | 10 | 90 | 9.00

 | Cooked fishcake | 11 | Not tradeable | N/A

 | Lobster | 12 | 167 | 13.92

 | Bass | 13 | 85 | 6.54

 | Redberry pie | 10 | 189 | 18.90

 | Apple pie | 14 | 79 | 5.64

 | Garden pie | 12 | 74 | 6.17

 | Fish pie | 12 | 780 | 65.00

 | Cake | 12 | 165 | 13.75

 | Chocolate cake | 15 | 197 | 13.13

 | Cooked sweetcorn | 10 | 158 | 15.80

 | Potato with butter | 14 | 408 | 29.14

During the events, the follower can be resupplied with food. All food supplied during the event will heal the same amount (10 hit points), unlike the food supplied prior to starting (which heals the amount it is supposed to).

Your follower will lose all of their food if you log out. (Using the escape option to leave the event, teleporting out of the minigame, completing the event or using the evade option to evade an event does not cause follower's food to be lost.)

Requirements to start[edit|edit source]

The followingquestsmust be completed to play this minigame:

In Aid of the Myrequefor initial access to the minigameDarkness of Hallowvalefor access to the reverse route, Burgh de Rott Ramble

Temple Trekking starts at the town of Burgh de Rott. Start the minigame by speaking to one of the NPCs standing nearby.

Burgh de Rott Ramble starts on the east side of theRiver Salvejust outside thetemple. A player can start at either side.

Weapons and armour[edit|edit source]



One standard weapon. Fast weapons are recommended for this minigame, especially on route 3: You have to kill a monster quickly when it attacks your follower.Dragon daggerfor its powerful special attack.Ancient macemay be used to regain some Prayer points mid-trek.AnEfaritay's aidor a silver weapon for fighting vampyres. One of these isrequiredfor killing vampyres. See below.Salve amulet (e), because many of the combat encounters are undead; a salve amulet (e) boosts accuracy and strength against undead by 20% the non-enchanted version only boosts by 15%.Dragonorcrystal halberdcan be very useful to melee monsters safely, especially if they get stuck behind obstacles.A high melee defence and Prayer bonus setup is recommended.GuthansorProselytewill conserve both Prayer and food.Snelmfor fightingGiant snails.

Inventory[edit|edit source]

Guthix balance potionis recommended for slaying vampyresDruid pouchto defend againstghasts; stock up before startingFire of Dehumidificationdoes notworkKnifeto skin snakes and cut vines for the river crossing eventDaggersdonotwork for skinningsnakesPrayer potionsare optional, and recommended for first time trekking via the Route 3Anaxeand atinderboxmay be helpful, however, they are provided in events when neededFood, both for personal healing and to heal the follower. The follower canonlyaccept food from the above table after they have taken damage.A (super)combat potioncan help you deal damage as it is normally hard to kill juvinatesEnough open space to pick up items quickly during eventsIf using Prayer it is suggested that you bring aholy wrenchfromRum Dealas it restores extra prayer points when you use a Prayer potionHammerfor an event where you need to repair a bridge. (equip a woodcutting axe to avoid needing the hammer)

Prayer[edit|edit source]

During treks it is recommended, but not necessary, to have fullPrayer points. Certain monsters in the events can hit hard, soProtection Prayerscome in handy. Also, you need Prayer points to collect items for druid pouches, if you need any. The Paterdomus temple and Nature Spirit altar are quite close by to the start of each route. Prayer potions can be used too. However, higher-level players who have brought the correct equipment should have little need of Prayer though it does make it safer and easier for lower-level players.

Silver weapons[edit|edit source]

Unless you are wearing anEfaritay's aid, Vampyre Juvinates can only be harmed by relatively weaksilver weaponry. Because of this an Efaritay's aid is strongly recommended. Adragon defenderwill greatly increase accuracy against Juvinates if using a one-handed weapon.

Rod of ivandiswill perform capably, and using its special withGuthix balance potionallows the player to finish off Juvinates at slightly below 50% healthIvandis flail, which requiresA Taste of Hope, is largely stronger than arune scimitar. It retains the Rod of ivandis' special ability but does not have or lose chargesBlisterwood flail, which requiresSins of the FatherWolfbaneis fast and has a Prayer bonus, but will not perform as wellDemonbane weapons(Arclight/Emberlightrecommended)Blessed axeSilver boltsused with acrossbow(ironor better)Silver sickle (b)(also good against Ghasts)Rune throwing axeswill not hurt Juvinates, but using their special at the beginning of an encounter will keep them from attacking, and likely killing, the follower (especially on harder routes)

People to escort[edit|edit source]

The people to escort are divided into 3 groups: easy, medium and hard. The followers on Temple Trekking are clothed in colours that intend to show their difficulty, while the followers on Burgh de Rott Ramble are dressed to resemble typical player characters and their likely abilities. In combat and campsite events, the number of monsters faced (or people helped) are determined by which follower is escorted. Easy/strong followers have 3, Medium have 4, and Hard/weak have 5 or 6. The number of monsters a player defeats on a Trek or Ramble will largely determine the size of reward.

Names | Class | Notes

Fyiona Fray | Dalcian Fang | Mage | Adventurer | Easy | They have the bestAttackandDefencelevel as well the mostHitpoints. Only three monsters will appear in any event, making them easier to defend and combat events shorter. Because there are fewer monsters, the rewards will generally be lower per Trek.

Jayene Kliyn | Valantay Eppel | Ranger | Apprentice | Medium | They have slightly less Attack, Defence and Hitpoints. Four monsters will appear in combat events, so defending them won't be terribly difficult, but each trip will likely be more rewarding.

Rolayne Twickit | Smiddi Ryak | Woman-at-arms | Forester | Hard | They have very low Attack, Defence and Hitpoints, and five monsters will appear in combat events. Defending these followers can be tricky sometimes, and a trek will end very fast if the player allows more than one monster to attack them.

Routes[edit|edit source]

Citizens ofBurgh de Rottand the mercenaries ofMisthalincan be escorted by 3 different paths, the main difference being the combat level of the monsters faced. Depending upon combat level and available gear, choose an appropriate path.

Route 1:This is the easy and circuitous route through theMort Myre Swamp. The player will need to complete mostly 3 events on this path, but it can be any number of events between 0–9. Players can choose to evade any combat events. The monsters on this path are around level 80. Rune armour should be a minimum for combat events on this route. Players in Burgh de Rott who do not wish to partake in Temple Trekking events needing a quick shortcut to Paterdomus may be able to use this route to that end. They can evade events that take place not close enough to Paterdomus, and then leave the trail for events that take place when Paterdomus comes close.Route 2:This is the medium route that travels along the River Salve. There can be 0–4 events on this path and the monsters will be around level 110. Prayer may be useful for certain events depending on the player's level, so choosing pure defence armour or Prayer armour will be at the player's discretion. In order to evade combat events, the player must complete at least 50% of the event first.Route 3:This is the hard route which uses the shortcut in Canifis, narrow pathways through the Hollows and the boat to Mort'ton. The monsters are around level 140, and there is no way to evade any event. There can be 0–5 events on this path, but most often there will be 3 events. Prayer will be important to surviving this route at any level, so having Prayer boosting gear is recommended. Escorting a weak follower is not recommended for this route but is still possible.

Events[edit|edit source]

There are 3 different types of events that might happen when you're moving forward. Each path has a different amount of spots where an event may occur. Events are not weighed evenly.[1]Once an event occurs, the player and follower are pulled into the event area. The player will start in front of a section of path with blue stones. Right-clicking will display an Escape option, which abandons the trip and leaves the player in the middle of the swamp normally. At the opposite end of the area is the path that allows the player to "Continue-trek", once the event is completed. In combat events on routes 1 and 2, there are paths thatevade-eventthat when used will skip the event and continue trekking, adding no reward and increasing the chance for another event. On route 2, 50% of the monsters must be killed before being able to use Evade-event.

Friendly event[edit|edit source]

A man namedAbidor Crankwill appear as an event and heal you and the follower, boosting yourDefencelevel by up to 12 (depending on the player's Defence level) and yourHitpointsby 15. He also turns allrotten foodsintostews.

Combat events[edit|edit source]

In combat events a certain number of enemies will attack player and escort. For most of the combat events, the monsters give a few seconds before attacking. This is the player's chance to position themself between the follower and the monsters. All combat events are multi-way combat.
Combat events provide the majority of the end reward when completed.

Monster Name | Notes | Image

Vampyre Juvinates | Must be killed with silver weapons, listedabove.Rod of ivandisandGuthix balance potionare strongly recommended. They can take a very long time to kill on the harder routes, but are not particularly strong, not hitting any harder than 10 damage. If they get to your follower, they must be killed before they will stop. Juvinates that are cured will give a variety of items (steel-adamant, medium clues, etc.), roughly equivalent to those found in black chests inShades of Mort'tonminigame. | 

Ghasts | You needDruid pouchesto fight them, otherwise they just rot your food. They hit at half the speed of awhipor dagger, but can still do a lot of damage (up to 12 on route 3), so Protect from Melee Prayer is recommended when fighting more than one. Because they attack so slowly, Prayer can be conserved by turning it off between attacks. Only hidden ghasts will attack your follower, use a Druid pouch on the hidden ghast to reveal it, drawing its attention to you. They drop the same items as normal ghasts from the swamp. If you have no druid pouches left, then cast bloom (near some rotting logs etc.) with the sickle (b) or similar item to get more, as you would in the swamps normally. However, if you have no Prayer left either, your only options are to evade the event (if possible) or escape. | 

Shades | Riyl,Asyn, orFiyrvarieties depending on the route. This event only occurs at Mort'ton, and drop the remains used for theShades of Mort'tonminigame. They can end your trip quickly if they start piling on your follower. They begin attacking quickly, giving little time for positioning your follower. They are often lined up, however they are also notorious for passing through players. Once they are lined up, you may wish to attack each one to ensure they do not pass through you. UseSalve amuletto increase damage. Having a quick means of killing, such as aDragon daggerfor its special, will be useful for taking care of shades that attack your follower. | 

Swamp snakes | Giant snakes with fast, hard-hitting melee attacks that attack in packs. Their attacks hit up to 18 damage on route 3, so death could come quickly without Protect from Melee up. They are also extremely large in terms of game dimensions, so may sometimes get stuck easily behind obstacles. Because of this, aHalberdor range weapon is extremely useful to use to conserve Prayer and/or food. They can also easily stack on the same tiles that one swamp snake is already on. When starting a snake event, just get between the follower and the snakes the simplest way possible and stay still, letting them come to you. Moving too much on this event is the worst thing to do. Any snake that gets to your follower must be killed first. They do not directly drop anything, but instead leave behind a corpse; a knife can be used on it to get 2–5(Swamp) Snake hides. If a snake manages to attack your follower and is subsequently killed by you, it will drop bones instead of a corpse. This will never happen if all the snakes are attacking you. There is a glitch where a snake will be on top of another snake, will have a yellow dot on the minimap, but sometimes won't appear on the game screen and won't have a right click option until you move. This can potentially kill the follower, as when you move to make it appear, it will then attack your follower. Another glitch occurs randomly when a swamp snake spawns outside the map, making it harder to kill if not using Ranged or Magic. These glitches are yet to be fixed by Jagex. | 

Giant snails | Uses a Magical Ranged attack that easily penetrates melee defence and hits up to 17 on route 3 when not wearing aSnelm. Use Protect from Missiles on hard routes when taking multiple attacks. A snail needs only be hit once to distract it from your follower. They heal rapidly. It ishighlyrecommended that you use the 'Protect from Missiles' Prayer, even if you are wearing a Snelm, as the snails' attacks rarely miss even against high magic defence armour, and you can still take damage very quickly. They dropSnail shellsredeemable for 600coinsinDorgesh-Kaan, and can potentially dropPerfect snail shellsinstead, which give 600coinsand 500Craftingexperience. | 

Nail beasts | Shrieking beasts that attack with a flurry of claws and bites, landing three separate hits in a single attack. Their max damage per individual hit is low (4 on route 3) and the time between flurries is quite long (half the speed of an abyssal whip), but the individual strikes have very high accuracy, soProtect from Meleeis a must. They have low defence and hitpoints and don't usually threaten your follower, but they will need to be killed if they do because of their accuracy. They dropNail Beast NailsandBig bones. This event does not occur often. Nail beasts are weak toSanfew serumsif they are "used" on them, which deals 20–40 damage per dose and grantsAttackexperience. This requires the player to have no weapons equipped; if they do, it will automatically be unequipped if there is space in theirinventory. | 

Headandtentacles | Appears only during boat trip of route 3. It is actually five parts, a level 140 Head and four level 99 Tentacles. The Tentacles can hit anywhere on the boat, but will usually only attack the follower if they are directly in front of one. If the playerpoisonsorenvenomsone part of the monster, all of them become afflicted. If the head is near death and a tentacle is still alive, it will return to full health. The Head can hit very hard, but doesn't hit often and its attacks can be avoided by hitting it and moving to the opposite side of the boat. Kill the part attacking the follower first. | 

Puzzle events[edit|edit source]

There are four different types of puzzle events.

Name | What to do | Image

Bridge | Event with Zombie and trees:Kill the Zombie for aBronze axe, if needed. Chop down the trees and use theLogsto fill the gaps in bridge. You must either have a hammer in your inventory or be wielding an axe to repair the bridge. It is possible, yet rare, for Undead Lumberjacks to spawn while there are trees. In which case you can mix and match logs and planks. The Undead lumberjacks heredo notdrop the Lumberjack clothing pieces.Event with Zombie andNOtrees:Kill a Zombie for a Bronze axe, if needed. Wait around, andUndead Lumberjackswill appear from the river. Kill them for planks to repair the bridge with - you must either have a hammer in your inventory or be wielding an axe to do this. Killing the Undead Lumberjacks will sometimes yield a piece ofLumberjack clothing. Just wait around for more lumberjacks if the first wave doesn't drop a piece. You will not receive duplicate pieces of the Lumberjack Outfit. You normally can only receive one piece of clothing or food per encounter. If multiple Undead Lumberjacks are killed at the same time, each one killed at that time will have a chance to drop a piece allowing you to obtain several pieces during one encounter. This can be accomplished by usingchinchompas, thedragon 2h sword, orburst/barragespells from theAncient Magicks. Once a piece drops, the player will no longer be able to receive another piece during that encounter.It is possible to experience both variants of the bridge event on the same trek/ramble, or even multiple of the same one.It is possible to bringlogsof any type (exceptpyre logs) orplanks(only regular planks works) to repair the bridge. Aplank sackcan be used to save inventory space and bring planks for several trips. | 

River | If you find a river without a bridge use aknifeto cut 3 vines from the smaller trees, then wind the vines together to make aLong vine. Throw the Long vine to the larger tree's branch and swing over the river. If you do not have a knife, search the nearby backpack to find one. | 

Campsite | Bug:Due to a bug, it is currently impossible to encounter the campsite event.3 to 5 starving adventurers (Marv,Hank,Wilf,Sarahand/orRachel) will be seated around a dead campfire. To continue, they must be fed or they turn into Ghasts, which must be killed to continue. Following a bug fix in 2015, purple sweets will now work to cure the adventurers. Previously it would consume the entire stack. Most foods work, but in the event there are 5 snails, abronze axe, atinderbox, and 2 dead trees which will provide everything needed to cook and feed them. Priority for feeding them is: ghastly, very sick and sick. When rewards are calculated, this event counts as a combat event. Having a basket or a sack filled with food makes the campsite event considerably easier and also allows you or your companion to have snail meat. Interestingly enough, if you manage to provide one of the campers with food just as they are about to become a Ghast, they heal anyway.
This event can be annoying if a camper turns into a ghast, and you are not currently equipped for killing a ghast.If this is the case, you must give up the entire event without a reward, as there is no 'evade event' path available. | 

Bog (removed) | Use any item that has aslashattack option (e.g. a longsword, dagger, axe, Abyssal whip) or a knife on a spiny bush to get somebranches. Use these to feel the firmness of the bog. Continue over the marsh walking on firm ground. If you walk on soft ground, you will sink into it and be taken back to shore.Note:It is advised to bring more than one branch because they get stuck in the bog at times. You can go back and get more branches if necessary by either retracing your steps or intentionally stepping onto soft ground to get back to shore. | 

Money making[edit|edit source]

The followingmoney making guideis available for Temple Trekking:

Method | Hourly profit | Skills

Temple Trekking | 437,767 | 60Combat levelrecommended to killNail Beasts

Rewards[edit|edit source]

After successfully completing a trek, the follower will give the player areward token. These tokens can be blue, yellow, or red, depending on the chosen route. The reward amount is determined by how many monsters are fought, what level they were, and how many puzzle events were completed, as explained below. The token given can be exchanged for the rewardanywhereby clicking on the token; after which, an interface will open allowing the player to select their reward from the following table.

This table shows the max reward possible on any trek for each item. The player may select from any of the following rewards:

Item | Path 1 | Path 2 | Path 3 | Max | Value (with max rewards)

Pure essence | 50–15050–150 | 120–380120–380 | 370–660370–660 | 660 | 660

Bow string | 100–2009,600–19,200 | 150–25014,400–24,000 | 200–30019,200–28,800 | 300 | 28,800

Silver bar | 5–50695–6,950 | 50–1006,950–13,900 | 100–15013,900–20,850 | 150 | 20,850

Herbs(tarromin/harralanderandtoadflax)[a] | 5–15 | 10–20 | 15–30 | 30 (See below) | 

Coal(2x) andIron ore(1x)[b] | 21–723,227–11,064 | 66–16510,142–25,355 | 150–21623,050–33,330 | 144 Coal and 72 Iron | 33,330

Watermelon seeds | 10–20740–1,480 | 15–301,110–2,220 | 20–401,480–2,960 | 40 | 2,960

Raw lobsters | 2–35140–2,450 | 30–652,100–4,550 | 60–804,200–5,600 | 80 | 5,600

XP tome | 1,100–1,650 XP tome | 2,035–3,025 XP tome | 4,015–5,005 XP tome | N/A | N/A

Random |  |  |  |  | 

The player may select a tome of experience as one of the rewards. These tomes give someexperiencein one of the following skills, chosen at random when the tome is selected:

AgilityFiremakingFishingMiningSlayerThievingWoodcutting

Each tome has a fairly high value for alchemy (2,000 for Low Alchemy, 3,000 for High); tomes for undesired skills may be better used to this end. The colour of the tome is the same as the colour of the reward token used.

Item | Route | XP | Average XP per Tome

Blue tome | Level 1 | Random amount of experience (1,100–1,650) in a defined skill. | 1,375

Yellow tome | Level 2 | Random amount of experience (2,035–3,025) in a defined skill. | 2,530

Red tome | Level 3 | Random amount of experience (4,015–5,005) in a defined skill. | 4,510

Note: It is the routeNOTthe follower level i.e. "easy", "medium", and "hard", which determines the tome reward, where "route 1" is the blue tome, "route 2" is the yellow tome, and "route 3" is the red tome.

For players looking to maximise their experience rewards per hour, selecting an "easy" follower will reduce your overall potential points but maximise your treks per hour by reducing the amount of monsters per combat event in each trek. For example a route 3 trek with an "easy" follower will result in three Nail Beasts per encounter; whereas for a "hard" follower there will be five Nail Beasts. Due to this, for players looking to maximise experience tomes per hour, they should exclusively use "easy" followers for their treks.

Determining the best route to take when trying to maximise experience tomes depends on your available combat gear, combat skills level, luck with encounters, access to theMorytania Legs 3for easier teleports back toBurgh de Rottand access to a quick stat restoration method such as therejuvenation poolor better at a POH orNardahteleport from thedesert amulet 4.

A simple way to determine your experience per hour for each trek route would be to take your average completion rate for each route per hour and multiple it by the average experience per tome for the route. For example:

Assuming 35 successful "easy" follower and route 1 treks per hour, this would net a player 48,125 experience across the seven possible skills on average (6,875 experience per skill), on top of the experience granted during combat.Assuming 25 successful "easy" follower and route 2 treks per hour, this would net a player 63,250 experience across the seven possible skills on average (9,035 experience per skill), on top of the experience granted during combat.Assuming 15 successful "easy" follower and route 3 treks per hour, this would net a player 67,650 experience across the seven possible skills on average (9,664 experience per skill), on top of the experience granted during combat.

Hence, if you are able to complete more than 27 medium treks per hour and only 15 hard you are better off doing route 2 treks than route 3 or 1.

Trek points[edit|edit source]

All rewards other than tomes of experience are distributed based on the amount of "points" the player earns during the trek. Points are earned by completing puzzle events and killing NPCs.

Most puzzle events give 500 points regardless of route chosenThe bridge event where zombies are killed for planks awards 0 pointsThe Abidor Crank event awards 0 pointsKilling an NPC yields either 325, 625, or 1,125 points depending on whether route 1, 2, or 3 was chosenTheheadandtentacleson route 3 awards the player 4,000 points

The maximum amount of points that can be earned on a trek is 8,000 and the minimum amount of points that can be earned on a trek is 325. If a player manages to earn no points on a trek, their reward will still be treated as if they had earned 325 points. It is important to note that the difficulty of the player's follower does not directly affect their points, but allows them to earn more points as the number of NPCs in a combat event increases from 3 to 5 as follower difficulty increases.

The exact formula for determining the number of rewards based on points is

Reward count=low+⌊(high−low)*(points−325)/(8000−325)⌋

wherepointsis the player's Temple Trekking points for the trek,lowis the minimum amount of the given reward for the tier of reward token, andhighis the maximum amount.

For example, if the player earned 500 points on route 2 and picked bow strings as their reward, they would be given150+⌊(250−150)*(500−325)/(8000−325)⌋=150+2=152bow strings. For the ore and herb rewards, this formula gives the sum of the two given rewards. For example, the same player would earn66+⌊(165−66)*(500−325)/(8000−325)⌋=66+2=68combined coal and iron ore.

Iron and coal amountsIron ore amount=⌊Reward count/3⌋Coal amount=Reward count−Iron ore amountHerb amountsLow level herb amount=⌊2*Reward count/3⌋High level herb amount=Reward count−Low level herb amount

