[Minigame: Wily_cat]

Awily catis a special variant of a petcat, which players gain access to by completing theRatcatchersquest. After completion, players can speak toFelkrashto have her train theirovergrown catinto a wily cat. (Warning: After training your overgrown cat to be a wily cat, you will start from zero for the number of rats caught for thecat training medal. Wily cats are also ineligible for the medal.) Wily cats are the best hunters of any cat, with a success rate of 70%. When fightinghell-rat behemothsthey have higher health, get hit less often, and can hit slightly higher than regular cats. In addition, they can also catchkalphite larvaeandbutterflies(as well asHunterbutterflies, though this yields noexperience). Wily cats do not require food of any kind (except when fighting hell-rat behemoths).

Players are only allowed to have one wily orlazy catat a time, in addition to one kitten or adult cat, and as many overgrown cats as they wish. You may have multiple wily cats if you first store your existing wily cat in yourmenageriebefore training another.

Regular cats, or regular hell cats can't be trained into a Wily cat.

Combat stats[edit|edit source]

When fightingHell-Rat Behemoths, theKing rator in theRat Pits, wily cats have the following combat stats:[1]

Hitpoints | Attack | Strength | Defence

12 | 12 | 8 | 2

Training your Overgrown/Lazy cat or hellcat[edit|edit source]

After completion ofRatcatchersquest, anovergrown catcan be trained into awily catby talking toFelkrash. When the wily cat eventually reverts to alazy cat, it can be re-trained into a wily cat by repeatedly catching rats (both normal andhell-ratversions). If, whilst attempting to train your lazy normal/hellcat into a wily cat, the cat does not seem to transform (it should take about 25 rats), players can pick up their cat and re-drop it to reset the 'training timer', otherwise you could be training your cat for what seems an indefinite time (even hundreds of rats and 1.5hrs+ have been observed without success).

It is not possible to re-train a lazy cat into a wily cat using aball of woolto play with them or by stroking it, only by chasing rats.[2]Likewise, having your cat chase amouse toywill not transform it back into a wily cat.[3]

Wily and lazy cats can be named by speaking withFelkrash. The name can be a combination of any six letters or spaces, but no numbers. Note that the name will be used in theRuneScapeinterface for every wily and lazy cat the player has.

Players are only allowed to have one wily or lazy cat out or in bank at a time, in addition to one kitten or adult cat, and as many overgrown cats as they wish. You can however have multiple lazy/wily cats by storing them in yourmenageriebefore training another. Players can store both lazy and wily cats in their menageries. Wily cats will not become lazy while in a menagerie.

Interacting with your wily cat[edit|edit source]

While wily cats do not need attention like kittens do, the amount of attention they have received influences the dialogue when the wily cat is spoken to.

When asked how it is doing, an angry cat will hiss and complain that it hasn't been petted enough.Once it has been petted enough, it will say that it is content, but wants to hunt more rats.Once that need is satisfied, it will purr and say it is happy, but that the player shouldn't take this as a sign to start neglecting it again.

There is no mechanical benefit to a fully content wily cat.

Dialogue[edit|edit source]

This article on an NPC has an associated dialogue page.Click herefor a transcript of possible conversations with this NPC.

