 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Asgarnia Smith at the Bedabin Camp . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Long

Description | Rumours abound throughout Varrock and Al-Kharid that an archaeologist has discovered clues to a hoard of treasure hidden deep in the desert, south of Al-Kharid.
Anybody prepared to offer him assistance in his treasure hunting could well find themselves benefitting from a very large reward indeed...

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: The Dig Site Temple of Ikov The Tourist Trap Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Priest in Peril Waterfall Quest 53 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) 50 Magic ( not boostable ) 50 Firemaking ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 10 Slayer ( not boostable ) ( not required to start ) or the gas mask from Plague City Access to Morytania Graveyard

Items required | 10+ Shantay passes or a way to enter the Kharidian Desert without one 650 Coins 12 Magic logs (can be noted) 6 Steel bar (can be noted) 6 Molten glass (can be noted) Ashes Charcoal 1 blood rune Bones (can be noted to prevent accidental burial) A silver bar Garlic powder (made by grinding garlic in a pestle and mortar ) Spice ( gnome spice and Evil Dave 's spices will not work) A sweet ( cake , chocolate cake (part cakes are accepted), or chocolate bar ) Spiked boots (obtainable during the quest by bringing Dunstan climbing boots and an iron bar ; do so before attempting to obtain the ice diamond ) Climbing boots (if Eadgar's Ruse isn't completed and/or you lack 61 Magic for the Trollheim Teleport ) A facemask , slayer helmet , or gas mask A tinderbox 20-50+ lockpicks

Recommended | 70 Combat level Started Nature Spirit to enter Mort Myre Swamp High-healing Food Prayer potions ( highly recommended) Super restore or Menaphite remedy potions ( highly recommended) Antidote++ or antipoisons (especially if Ironman ) ( highly recommended) Ice gloves or Smiths gloves (i) (to be able to wield a weapon against Fareed if not using water spells with runes only) Stamina , super energy or energy potions Weight-reducing clothing to lower run energy drain and restore run energy faster Coins for magic carpet rides (bring a ring of charos (a) for discounted rides) Ring of dueling (easy access to Kharidian Desert ) Digsite pendant (easy access to Exam Centre ) Ectophial (easy access to Morytania ) Skills necklace or Necklace of passage (easy access to Rasolo ) Runes to cast Paddewwa Teleport to complete a Varrock Hard Diary task 80,000 Coins if purchasing an Ancient Staff after the quest from Eblis

Enemies to defeat | Dessous (level 139) 5 ice trolls (level 120-124) Kamil (level 154) Fareed (level 167) Damis (2 forms, levels 103 and 174) You will also need to tank hits by many high level enemies throughout most parts of the quest.

Ironman concerns | The player briefly visits Entrana . Player will need to obtain Magic logs ; see the "enchanting the mirrors" section for more information

League notes | Unlocking Desert ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

Items required (may be noted): 650 coins, ashes, blood rune, bones, 6 molten glass, 12 magic logs, charcoal and 6 steel bars.

Recommended: waterskins, a charged ring of dueling, 400 coins for carpet rides to Bedabin Camp, stamina potions, 2 Shantay passes, Digsite teleport

Ultimate Ironmen: You can deliver the supplies in several trips (use the items on Eblis ).

Note: At any point with one of the diamonds in your inventory, a level 95 stranger may randomly appear and attack you with a poisoned dragon dagger. You may place the diamonds in the pyramid or your bank at any point to avoid this.

Smoke diamond [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: tinderbox , facemask ( Slayer Helmet works) or gas mask , combat gear , food , and ice gloves or water spells or Dwarven cannon .

Recommended: Stamina or energy potions , Dwarven cannon , good food , Protect from melee prayer.

Note: You must wear ice gloves to wield anything while fighting Fareed (you can use ranged without ice gloves if you keep your distance, but all arrows are turned to ash as they hit). If using magic , only water spells can damage him ( Trident of the Seas will not work). Be ready to run nonstop - the torches each have a timer.

Shadow diamond [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 20+ lockpicks , antipoison , food , 5,000 coins , magic combat equipment , Prayer / Super restores to combat the Prayer drain . Note: Tiles by the general store in the Bandit camp will unnote any items for a small fee, and nearby bandits can be pickpocketed for Antipoison and lockpicks .

Ice diamond [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: runes to cast fire spells to unfreeze the Trolls after killing Kamil , cake/chocolate cake, spiked boots (get these from Dunstan with a pair of climbing boots and an iron bar), climbing boots or Trollheim Teleport , enough food and combat equipment to kill 5 Ice Trolls and Kamil. Prayer and restore/super restore/menaphite remedy potions highly recommended.

Note: Only fire spells will work if using Magic on Kamil . Iban Blast , Flames of Zamorak , and trident of the seas ' built in spell cannot damage Kamil . Additionally, your stats will be constantly drained during this fight; keep this in mind when selecting the fire spell you will use. Note you cannot run in the area, so there's no point in bringing graceful set.

Tip: Use a ring of dueling to teleport to Ferox Enclave and use the pools to restore all your combat stats and prayer before proceeding.

Blood diamond [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Silver bar , spice , garlic powder (or garlic and pestle and mortar ), combat gear , food , prayer potions , and (after Entrana!) combat equipment . Means of travel to Draynor is also helpful.

Recommended: Consider bringing your Druid pouch to prevent ghasts from rotting your food as you run through the swamp

The Ancient Pyramid [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: all four diamonds. Recommended: weight-reducing gear, stamina potion, energy potion, antipoison, prayer potions and high-healing food.

Level 1 | Level 2 | Level 3 | Level 4

Level 1 of the Ancient Pyramid | Level 2 of the Ancient Pyramid | Level 3 of the Ancient Pyramid | Level 4 of the Ancient Pyramid

Note: Talk to Eblis after the quest to buy an Ancient staff for 80,000 coins, or buy one from the GE for 66,795 .

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

3 Quest points 20,006.9 Magic experience [1] The ability to use Ancient Magicks : At any time, you can pray at the altar and change between the standard and Ancient Magicks spellbooks. After traversing the pyramid for the first time, you may enter via the back-door of the pyramid to gain a short cut to the altar. Be warned that changing spellbooks will drain your prayer to 0. Ring of visibility : If you ever lose it, you can obtain another one from Rasolo . Access to ancient staff : You can buy one from Eblis for 80,000 coins . If you lose the staff, you will have to reobtain it from another source. Access to the Smoke Dungeon , which can be used for various Slayer tasks . Ability to talk to Eblis to obtain an ancient signet .

Unlocks:

Dessous , Damis , Fareed , and Kamil accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

v • t • e Desert Treasure I

NPCs | Asgarnia Smith Terry Balando Bartender Eblis Hadley Rasolo Laheeb Roavar Malak Ruantun High Priest Dunstan Troll child Troll mother Troll father Azzanadra Enemies Dessous Kamil Fareed Damis Ice troll Scarabs Mummy ( sarcophagus , ashes ) Stranger |  | Asgarnia Smith Terry Balando Bartender Eblis Hadley Rasolo Laheeb Roavar Malak Ruantun High Priest Dunstan Troll child Troll mother Troll father Azzanadra | Enemies | Dessous Kamil Fareed Damis Ice troll Scarabs Mummy ( sarcophagus , ashes ) Stranger

 | Asgarnia Smith Terry Balando Bartender Eblis Hadley Rasolo Laheeb Roavar Malak Ruantun High Priest Dunstan Troll child Troll mother Troll father Azzanadra

Enemies | Dessous Kamil Fareed Damis Ice troll Scarabs Mummy ( sarcophagus , ashes ) Stranger

Items | Etchings Translation Silver pot Blessed pot Garlic powder Bandit's brew Spiked boots Gilded cross Warm key Ring of visibility Ancient staff Diamonds of Azzanadra Blood Ice Smoke Shadow |  | Etchings Translation Silver pot Blessed pot Garlic powder Bandit's brew Spiked boots Gilded cross Warm key Ring of visibility Ancient staff | Diamonds of Azzanadra | Blood Ice Smoke Shadow

 | Etchings Translation Silver pot Blessed pot Garlic powder Bandit's brew Spiked boots Gilded cross Warm key Ring of visibility Ancient staff

Diamonds of Azzanadra | Blood Ice Smoke Shadow

Locations | Morytania Graveyard Ice Path Shadow Dungeon Smoke Dungeon Ancient Pyramid

Related | Quick guide Transcript