 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Alec Kincade outside the Myths' Guild . Show on map

Official difficulty | Grandmaster

Official length | Very Long

Description | 30 years prior to the fateful day a mighty adventurer awakened Elvarg from her slumber, Crandor was a thriving and very much alive island, with a great tradition of mages and adventurers. The history of Crandor is a bold one, enough so that many a Crandorian earned the right to be part of the Champions' Guild! The Crandor we know today is very different from that of the past and there are so many questions that remain unanswered - your chance to uncover the secrets of the past starts with Dragon Slayer II.

Requirements | 200 Quest points ( required to start ) 75 Magic ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 70 Smithing ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 68 Mining ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 62 Crafting ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 60 Agility ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) (higher recommended) 60 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 50 Construction ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 50 Hitpoints ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Legends' Quest Family Crest Heroes' Quest Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City Waterfall Quest Dream Mentor Lunar Diplomacy The Fremennik Trials Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Eadgar's Ruse Druidic Ritual Troll Stronghold Death Plateau A Tail of Two Cats Icthlarin's Little Helper Gertrude's Cat Animal Magnetism Ernest the Chicken Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost Ghosts Ahoy Bone Voyage The Dig Site 100 Kudos Client of Kourend X Marks the Spot Started the Firemaking part of the Barbarian Training miniquest to gain access to the Ancient Cavern

Items required | A pickaxe An axe 8 oak planks 10 swamp paste At least 12 nails of any kind ( Note: Bringing more is recommended; nails may bend!) A hammer A machete A saw Catspeak amulet Ghostspeak amulet ( Morytania Legs 2 + work) Goutweed Cut dragonstone 2 molten glass Glassblowing pipe Spade Astral rune Seal of passage (or elite Fremennik Diary completion) Tinderbox Pestle and mortar Runes for 3 Fire Wave spells or 3 Fire Surge spells

Recommended | 100 Combat level (75+ range recommended) Prayer level to use at least protection prayers. Stamina potions Serpentine helm or anti-venom+ Teleports to various places around the game, most notably Musa Point , Fossil Island , Lunar Isle , and Rellekka as well as access to Spirit trees and Glider transport. Insulated boots High-tier combat equipment, high-healing food , and prayer potions

Enemies to defeat | Vorkath (level 392) Spawn (level 100) Robert the Strong (level 224) 2 Green dragon (level 79) 2 Blue dragon (level 111) Red dragon (level 152) Iron dragon (level 189) Brutal green dragon (level 227) Black dragon (level 227) Steel dragon (level 246) Brutal red dragon (level 289) Mithril dragon (level 304) Adamant dragon (level 338) Rune dragon (level 380) Galvek (level 608)

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting off [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Pickaxe , gear for killing a level 100 monster. Recommended : Amulet of glory , digsite pendant .

The House on the Hill [ edit | edit source ]

Recommended: Hand in the map pieces received in the house before heading outside the house (Open Stone Chest upstairs and downstairs)

To Lithkren! [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 8 oak planks , 10 swamp paste , at least 12 nails , a hammer and a saw .

Bob the Cat [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Catspeak amulet (e) . Recommended: Quick transportation to Sophanem.

Robert the Strong [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Seal of passage , 1 astral rune , a hammer , a pestle and mortar , goutweed , dream vial , a tinderbox , melee gear (keep gear in the bank until lighting the brazier to save run energy).

Recommended: A good crush weapon, food and prayer potion as the fight at the end might need it.

Note: If you leave the dream, you do NOT have to remake the dream potion! Talk to Bob to re-enter the dream.

The dragon key [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Food to survive traps, prayer potions to keep prayer on for long amounts of time, Machete , any axe Note: Players with 79 Agility (boostable) can access a vine shortcut into the Kharazi Jungle without needing an axe or machete . Recommended: Bring plenty of food and stamina potions as well as at least one prayer potion! Take the gnome glider to Karamja or bring 200 for the Brimhaven cart ride. You can also teleport to the Gem Mine beneath Shilo Village using Karamja Gloves 3 or 4.

Items required: Ghostspeak amulet , a dragonstone , 2 molten glass , glassblowing pipe , chisel , and a spade . Recommended: Ectophial , amulet of glory or Draynor Manor tab, plenty of food (and filled druid pouches if you have not lit the fire of dehumidification ), stamina potion .

Items required: Ranged gear, dragonfire and venom protection, food, and prayer. Recommended: Crumble Undead runes, toxic blowpipe , salve amulet(ei) , super antifire potion , anti-venom+ , ranging potion , prayer potion , karambwans and dark crabs or similar high healing foods.

 | This fight takes place in an instance with a deathbank . On death , you can pay Torfinn 100,000 to retrieve lost items. Any unsafe death will delete all items left inside the deathbank. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Items required: Food, light source, gear to protect from high level skeletons.

Recommended: Stamina potions

Person | Weapon | Location

Aivas | Crossbow | Zartharim

Camorra | Axe | Saranthium

Robert | Bow | Arkney

Tristan | Sword | Karville

Items required: The 4 dragon key pieces , hammer , ancient key , 3 casts of Fire Wave (21 fire runes , 15 air runes , 3 blood runes ). Recommended: Food, dragonfire protection, games necklace , digsite pendant .

A World United [ edit | edit source ]

Recommended: Teleports to Falador, Ardougne, Rellekka, and 2 teleports to Varrock.

The Assault [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 4 free inventory spaces, dragonfire protection, combat gear, plenty of food. Recommended: Antidote++ , ranged gear, toxic blowpipe , super antifire potion , stamina potion , insulated boots .

 | This fight takes place in an instance with a deathbank . On death , you can pay Torfinn 100,000 to retrieve lost items. Any unsafe death will delete all items left inside the deathbank. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Items required: Dragonfire protection (both shield and potion are required, super antifire potions do not provide full protection!), ranged gear. Recommended: Ruby bolts (e) or ruby dragon bolts (e) , 3-4 super restore(4) , ranging potion(4) , high-healing food , stamina potion , one-click teleport.  (TURN AUTO RETALIATE OFF IN ADVANCE as it is not really necessary for the fight and is likely to get you killed in the third phase)

 | This fight takes place in an instance with a deathbank . On death , you can pay Torfinn 100,000 to retrieve lost items. Any unsafe death will delete all items left inside the deathbank. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Ending [ edit | edit source ]

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

5 Quest points 80,000 Smithing experience 60,000 Mining experience 50,000 Agility experience 50,000 Thieving experience Ability to speak to cats without the Catspeak amulet Access to the Myths' Guild Access to the pettable dog Ability to make super antifire potions by speaking to Primula 4x 25,000 experience in Magic , Ranged , Strength , Attack , Defence or Hitpoints by speaking to Ellen Access to Fountain of Uhld where dragonstone jewellery (excluding the ring of wealth ) can be recharged Access to the Pool of Dreams where players can choose to fight Galvek again or rewatch cutscenes from the quest Access to the Wrath Altar Access to the shop to buy the mythical cape Access to adamant and rune dragons in the Lithkren Vault Access to a stronger version of Vorkath on Ungael Ability to reforge the dragon platebody and kiteshield Ability to have a rune dragon as a Treasure Room guardian (requiring 99 Construction and 25,000,000 coins ) Ability to create an Ava's assembler by bringing Vorkath's head , 75 Mithril arrows , and 4,999 coins (or Ava's accumulator ) to Ava in Draynor Manor Ability to craft Ferocious gloves from Hydra leather in the Lithkren Vault (requires a hammer) Ability to construct Mythical cape (mounted) in your POH Ability to go back through the ancient doors on Lithkren and use your Digsite pendant on the Strange Machine north of the dragons. This will allow you to teleport there. Locator orb

v • t • e Dragon Slayer II

NPCs | Alec Kincade Dallas Jones Bob Neite Sphinx Not Bob Veos Imerominia Amelia Jonathan Sarah Gujuo Torfinn Ava Thorvald Koschei Soldier Fremennik drummer Paladin Fourth Age heroes Aivas Camorra Robert the Strong Tristan Odysseus Leaders King Lathas King Thoros King Roald Sir Amik Varze Brundt the Chieftain Team Achietties Brundt the Chieftain Jardric Sir Tiffy Cashien Oneiromancer Wise Old Man Monsters Spawn ( Strange Egg ) Robert the Strong Stone Guardian Vorkath Zombified Spawn Spider Final fight Green dragon Blue dragon Black dragon Steel dragon Brutal red dragon Mithril dragon Adamant dragon Rune dragon Galvek Dragonkin Dragonkin Zorgoth Sithaph Sakirth Strisath |  | Alec Kincade Dallas Jones Bob Neite Sphinx Not Bob Veos Imerominia Amelia Jonathan Sarah Gujuo Torfinn Ava Thorvald Koschei Soldier Fremennik drummer Paladin | Fourth Age heroes | Aivas Camorra Robert the Strong Tristan Odysseus | Leaders | King Lathas King Thoros King Roald Sir Amik Varze Brundt the Chieftain | Team | Achietties Brundt the Chieftain Jardric Sir Tiffy Cashien Oneiromancer Wise Old Man | Monsters | Spawn ( Strange Egg ) Robert the Strong Stone Guardian Vorkath Zombified Spawn Spider Final fight Green dragon Blue dragon Black dragon Steel dragon Brutal red dragon Mithril dragon Adamant dragon Rune dragon Galvek |  | Spawn ( Strange Egg ) Robert the Strong Stone Guardian Vorkath Zombified Spawn Spider | Final fight | Green dragon Blue dragon Black dragon Steel dragon Brutal red dragon Mithril dragon Adamant dragon Rune dragon Galvek | Dragonkin | Dragonkin Zorgoth Sithaph Sakirth Strisath

 | Alec Kincade Dallas Jones Bob Neite Sphinx Not Bob Veos Imerominia Amelia Jonathan Sarah Gujuo Torfinn Ava Thorvald Koschei Soldier Fremennik drummer Paladin

Fourth Age heroes | Aivas Camorra Robert the Strong Tristan Odysseus

Leaders | King Lathas King Thoros King Roald Sir Amik Varze Brundt the Chieftain

Team | Achietties Brundt the Chieftain Jardric Sir Tiffy Cashien Oneiromancer Wise Old Man

Monsters | Spawn ( Strange Egg ) Robert the Strong Stone Guardian Vorkath Zombified Spawn Spider Final fight Green dragon Blue dragon Black dragon Steel dragon Brutal red dragon Mithril dragon Adamant dragon Rune dragon Galvek |  | Spawn ( Strange Egg ) Robert the Strong Stone Guardian Vorkath Zombified Spawn Spider | Final fight | Green dragon Blue dragon Black dragon Steel dragon Brutal red dragon Mithril dragon Adamant dragon Rune dragon Galvek

 | Spawn ( Strange Egg ) Robert the Strong Stone Guardian Vorkath Zombified Spawn Spider

Final fight | Green dragon Blue dragon Black dragon Steel dragon Brutal red dragon Mithril dragon Adamant dragon Rune dragon Galvek

Dragonkin | Dragonkin Zorgoth Sithaph Sakirth Strisath

Items | Map piece Dream potion Inert locator orb Locator orb Water container Revitalisation potion Texts Ancient diary Aivas' diary Varrock census records Malumac's journal Old notes Ungael lab notes Lithkren vault notes Busts Aivas Camorra Robert Tristan Keys Ancient key Dragon key piece Dragon key ( cutscene ) |  | Map piece Dream potion Inert locator orb Locator orb Water container Revitalisation potion | Texts | Ancient diary Aivas' diary Varrock census records Malumac's journal Old notes Ungael lab notes Lithkren vault notes | Busts | Aivas Camorra Robert Tristan | Keys | Ancient key Dragon key piece Dragon key ( cutscene )

 | Map piece Dream potion Inert locator orb Locator orb Water container Revitalisation potion

Texts | Ancient diary Aivas' diary Varrock census records Malumac's journal Old notes Ungael lab notes Lithkren vault notes

Busts | Aivas Camorra Robert Tristan

Keys | Ancient key Dragon key piece Dragon key ( cutscene )

Locations | Ancient Cavern Crandor and Karamja Dungeon Dream World House on the Hill Karamjan Temple Lithkren Lithkren Vault Myths' Guild Shayzien Crypts Ungael Ungael laboratory

Music | Relics Lucid Dream Lucid Nightmare On Thin Ice The Maze The Walking Dead The Forsaken Scape Main Oncoming Foe The Dragon Slayer Mythical

Related | Quick guide ( speedrunning ) Transcript Pool of Dreams Tomb Karville Ice blockage Grave (Bob)