 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to the fallen man in the small cave in the Lunar Isle mine . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Medium

Description | Gielinor is not the safest place to live - dragons, trolls, demons... dangerous and despicable monsters of all sorts roam free. In this quest, you must help a fellow adventurer that doesn't do so well against these threats. With perseverance and the magical help of the Moon Clan, there should be no monster that can't be beaten. But is that really true? How about the monsters in your dreams? How about your own inescapable fears? How would you defeat them? Well, you'll soon find out as a tough and often bizarre quest awaits those of a strong will!

Requirements | 85 Combat ( required to start ) Completion of the following quests: Lunar Diplomacy The Fremennik Trials Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Eadgar's Ruse Druidic Ritual Troll Stronghold Death Plateau The ability to defeat 4 powerful monsters without the use of prayer

Items required | A seal of passage 3 different kinds of food : 6 of 1 type and 7 of 2 others for a total of 20 pieces (Sacks of cabbages , potatoes , and onions can be used as they each contain 10 piece of their respective food and only require a total of 3 inventory slots. Fruit baskets also work.) Goutweed An astral rune A tinderbox A hammer A pestle and mortar A good weapon ( trident of the seas recommended because they have no magic defence) , good armour , good food such as sharks , and super potion sets .

Enemies to defeat | The Inadequacy (level 343) The Everlasting (level 223) The Untouchable (level 274) The Illusive (level 108)

Ironman concerns | Note : As opposed to the dream world in Lunar Diplomacy, the dream world in Dream Mentor is not safe and dying here is the same as dying in the rest of Gielinor: you will lose your hardcore status. The lectern is the only way to leave, as no other teleports will work (including the ring of life).

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Helping the fallen man [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 3 Kinds of food , 6-7 of each, Seal of Passage.

Dream potion [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Goutweed , a hammer , a pestle and mortar , an astral rune , and a Seal of Passage.

Dreamland [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Dream potion, good food , armour , weapon , a tinderbox , and to save a trip the seal of passage .

For a detailed explanation of how to combat the upcoming enemies, refer to the full quest guide .

Note: You cannot use Prayer. You cannot use emergency teleports - the only way to leave during the fight is using the lectern, however, you'll have to start over from the beginning.

Magic Strategy 1: If you have Ancient Magicks unlocked, a simple strategy would be to bring runes for Blood Burst and Ice Burst . Setting your staff to autocast Blood Burst while manually casting Ice Burst to freeze the enemy as needed. The Burst spells area of effect damage works well against the multiple Doubt's which spawn around you. The healing effect of Blood Burst can keep you alive if you run out of food.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 15,000 Hitpoints experience 10,000 Magic experience 7 new spells added to your Lunar spells book ( Monster Examine , Humidify , Hunter Kit , Stat Spy , Dream , Plank Make , Spellbook Swap ) A dreamy lamp , which awards 15,000 experience in a combat skill of a player's choosing, apart from Attack and Prayer . 'Birds-Eye' Jack will now allow you to use the bank without a seal of passage equipped or in your inventory.

Unlocks:

The Untouchable , The Everlasting , The Inadequacy accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

v • t • e Dream Mentor

NPCs | Cyrisus 'Birds-Eye' Jack Oneiromancer Enemies The Inadequacy A Doubt The Everlasting The Untouchable The Illusive |  | Cyrisus 'Birds-Eye' Jack Oneiromancer | Enemies | The Inadequacy A Doubt The Everlasting The Untouchable The Illusive

 | Cyrisus 'Birds-Eye' Jack Oneiromancer

Enemies | The Inadequacy A Doubt The Everlasting The Untouchable The Illusive

Items | Cyrisus's chest Astral rune shards Ground astral rune Dream vial Dream potion Goutweed

Reward | Dreamy lamp

Locations | Lunar Isle Lunar Isle mine Dream World

Music | Down and Out On the Up Inadequacy Everlasting Untouchable Illusive

Related | Quick guide