 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Auguste on the island of Entrana . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | On the peaceful island of Entrana, a lone monk has tired of his life of simplicity and quiet reflection. Auguste wants to boldly write his name in the history books; to craftily defeat the laws of physics; to miraculously sail through the air... preferably not to horribly explode into a ball of flaming death. Of course, to do all this, he'll need the help of a worldly adventurer: are you bold enough to merrily laugh in the face of the unknown?

Requirements | 20 Quest points 20 Firemaking ( boostable ) ( required to start ) 30 Farming ( boostable ) ( required to start ) 36 Crafting ( boostable ) ( required to start )

Items required | 3 unnoted papyrus 1 ball of wool A full sack of potatoes (item is called Potatoes(10) ) (there are potatoes growing in Entrana in the house east of Auguste, bring another empty sack if picking here) 8 empty sacks – bring 9 sacks if planning to fill one with potatoes on Entrana . 1 unlit candle or black candle (can be obtained during quest by stealing candles in Entrana church) Yellow dye Red dye 10 unnoted silk A bowl (obtainable during quest) At least 10 unnoted normal logs A tinderbox 12 unnoted willow branches (buy from the Grand Exchange , or plant a willow sapling and wait 4 hours.) Note: A willow seed is not required, nor is a basket of apples as payment (although planting one beforehand is faster); all players receive a willow sapling and a basket of apples to pay to protect the tree from Auguste during the quest. Secateurs (only if planting the tree) (can also be exchanged from a Tool Leprechaun if placed there before) A rake (only if planting the tree) (can also be exchanged from a Tool Leprechaun if placed there before) A spade (only if planting the tree) (can also be exchanged from a Tool Leprechaun if placed there before)

Recommended | Grouping teleport to Pest Control for easy access to a bank, and quick access to Port Sarim and Entrana (alternatively, Rat Pits teleport if Ratcatchers is completed) Ring of the Elements Air altar teleport. It teleports you between Rimmington and Port Sarim. A charged amulet of glory to teleport to Draynor Village , which is close to Port Sarim Ability to use Cabbage Teleport via Explorer's ring 2 or better for easy travel to Port Sarim

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | 30 Farming ( boostable ) required to grow a willow tree for the willow branch The player visits Entrana

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

It is recommended to read ahead and bring the appropriate items to minimise the number of bank runs (taking the boat to Land's End through Veos is the closest bank, an alternative is to glory teleport to Draynor Village). The best strategy is to take all items except for the willow branches , tinderbox , and logs with you when you initially go to the island—then, bank once to get the branches, tinderbox, and logs.

Getting started [ edit | edit source ]

Required items: 3 papyrus , 1 ball of wool , 1 full sack of potatoes and 1 unlit candle . You need to bank your armour and weapons to enter Entrana.

The big balloon [ edit | edit source ]

Required items: Tinderbox , 10 silk (unnoted), 8 sandbags (or 8 empty sacks to fill with sand on Entrana), yellow and red dye , a bowl (found upstairs in the house with a cooking range), followed by 10 logs (unnoted), and 12 willow branches (unnoted). Make sure you have at least 2 inventory slots open, else you can't continue.

In flight [ edit | edit source ]

If you accidentally crash during the balloon flight, bring 10 more logs and talk to Auguste on Entrana to try again.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 2,000 Crafting experience 3,000 Farming experience 1,500 Woodcutting experience 4,000 Firemaking experience The Bomber jacket and cap Gnome goggles from the Gnome Restaurant minigame can be combined with the bomber cap by talking with Auguste Access to the balloon transport system 4 new routes available to be flown, when successfully flown they provide an additional 2,000 Firemaking experience per route. Ability to make origami balloons

v • t • e Enlightened Journey

NPCs | Auguste Assistants Assistant Brock Assistant Le Smith Assistant Lori Assistant Marrow Assistant Serf Assistant Stan Flash Mob Larry Moe Curly Bob |  | Auguste | Assistants | Assistant Brock Assistant Le Smith Assistant Lori Assistant Marrow Assistant Serf Assistant Stan | Flash Mob | Larry Moe Curly Bob

 | Auguste

Assistants | Assistant Brock Assistant Le Smith Assistant Lori Assistant Marrow Assistant Serf Assistant Stan

Flash Mob | Larry Moe Curly Bob

Items | Auguste's sapling Sandbag Balloon structure Origami balloons Origami balloon Yellow Blue Red Orange Green Purple Pink Black |  | Auguste's sapling Sandbag Balloon structure | Origami balloons | Origami balloon Yellow Blue Red Orange Green Purple Pink Black

 | Auguste's sapling Sandbag Balloon structure

Origami balloons | Origami balloon Yellow Blue Red Orange Green Purple Pink Black

Rewards | Bomber cap Bomber jacket Cap and goggles

Music | Floating Free

Related | Quick guide Balloon transport system Transcript