 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Velorina in Port Phasmatys . Can use a charter ship for a little over 1k gp in Port Sarim talking to Trader Stan on the southern-most dock. Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | East of Canifis is a ghost port. Not meaning that it's deserted. It's full of ghosts! For some reason, they're stuck in Gielinor , but some aren't happy with that. Can you help?

Requirements | Completed Priest in Peril Completed The Restless Ghost 25 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 20 Cooking ( boostable ) ( not required to start )

Items required | Some amount of Ecto-tokens : 31 Ecto-tokens (20 with ring of charos (a) ) OR 25 Ecto-tokens (10 with ring) using charter ships OR 1 bone, 1 pot, and 1 bucket for every 5 ecto-tokens required (see Pre-quest for more info) ~400 Coins Ghostspeak amulet Bucket of milk Silk 3 colours of dye (The dye colours you will need are random. If you want to save a trip, have 3 red , 3 blue , and 3 yellow dyes . That way, you can mix whatever colours you end up needing.) Spade Oak longbow Knife (can be purchased from the Canifis general store) Needle (can be purchased from the Canifis general store) Thread (can be purchased from the Canifis general store) One extra bucket of slime for colouring the bed sheet (can be purchased from a Charter ship crewmember at the port). Nettle tea (prepared ahead of time, within a bowl) or items to make nettle tea: A tinderbox and a log of which you have the Firemaking level to light. Tinderbox can be purchased from the general store during quest Gloves (must be closed fingered - Slayer gloves , Ranger gloves , Infinity gloves , Moonclan gloves , Granite gloves , Lunar gloves and Beekeeper's gloves won't work) Nettles (can be obtained during the quest) Bowl of water (empty bowl can be purchased during quest -- the gold bowl won't work)

Recommended | 15 Combat level Level 58 Agility (can be boosted) to save time at the Ectofuntus Food and weapons to defeat a level 32 foe 2-3 Stamina potions Fast travel between quest locations ( Slayer ring to Slayer Tower, Fenkenstrain's castle teleport , Canifis teleport or Fairy Rings ).

Enemies to defeat | Giant lobster (level 32) Can be safespotted .

Ironman concerns | Nettle tea and bucket of milk can be combined before the quest starts to save inventory space

League notes | Unlocking Morytania ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Beginning the quest [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: ghostspeak amulet , 31 ecto-tokens or buckets , pots , and bones to get them. (** Full completion of The Restless Ghost is required to start the quest** )

The old crone and some nettle tea [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: a bucket of milk and nettle tea or the items to make it: A tinderbox , logs , gloves (must be closed-fingered), and a bowl of water (bring extra just in case the water boils over too much).

Items required: ghostspeak amulet , model ship , silk , a needle , thread , a knife , three of each primary coloured dye, a spade , ecto-tokens , and food/combat gear to defeat a Giant lobster (level 32)

Items required: around 400 coins and an oak longbow .

Items required: ghostspeak amulet , bucket of slime (can be purchased during quest)

Using the spell [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: mystical robes , book of haricanto , translation manual , and a ghostspeak amulet .

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 2,400 Prayer experience Free passage into Port Phasmatys The Ectophial , which allows direct teleport to the Ectofuntus , is refilled from the Ectofuntus.

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Dragon Slayer II Morytania Medium Diary

v • t • e Ghosts Ahoy

NPCs | Velorina Necrovarus Ghost disciple Ghost guard Ghost innkeeper Metarialus Ak-Haranu Robin Old crone Old man Gravingas Ghost villager Haricanto Pirate captain Goopy snake Enemies Giant lobster Tortured soul |  | Velorina Necrovarus Ghost disciple Ghost guard Ghost innkeeper Metarialus Ak-Haranu Robin Old crone Old man Gravingas Ghost villager Haricanto Pirate captain Goopy snake | Enemies | Giant lobster Tortured soul

 | Velorina Necrovarus Ghost disciple Ghost guard Ghost innkeeper Metarialus Ak-Haranu Robin Old crone Old man Gravingas Ghost villager Haricanto Pirate captain Goopy snake

Enemies | Giant lobster Tortured soul

Items | Ecto-token Book of haricanto Translation manual Ghostspeak amulet (enchanted) Model ship Chest key Signed oak bow Bonemeal Bucket of slime Bedsheet Bedsheet (ectoplasm) Petition form Bone key Mystical robes Tea Nettles Nettle-water Nettle tea Nettle tea (milky) Cup of tea (nettle) Cup of tea (milky nettle) Porcelain cup Cup of tea (Ghosts Ahoy) Cup of tea (Ghosts Ahoy, milky) Treasure map Scrap 1 Scrap 2 Scrap 3 Treasure map |  | Ecto-token Book of haricanto Translation manual Ghostspeak amulet (enchanted) Model ship Chest key Signed oak bow Bonemeal Bucket of slime Bedsheet Bedsheet (ectoplasm) Petition form Bone key Mystical robes | Tea | Nettles Nettle-water Nettle tea Nettle tea (milky) Cup of tea (nettle) Cup of tea (milky nettle) Porcelain cup Cup of tea (Ghosts Ahoy) Cup of tea (Ghosts Ahoy, milky) | Treasure map | Scrap 1 Scrap 2 Scrap 3 Treasure map

 | Ecto-token Book of haricanto Translation manual Ghostspeak amulet (enchanted) Model ship Chest key Signed oak bow Bonemeal Bucket of slime Bedsheet Bedsheet (ectoplasm) Petition form Bone key Mystical robes

Tea | Nettles Nettle-water Nettle tea Nettle tea (milky) Cup of tea (nettle) Cup of tea (milky nettle) Porcelain cup Cup of tea (Ghosts Ahoy) Cup of tea (Ghosts Ahoy, milky)

Treasure map | Scrap 1 Scrap 2 Scrap 3 Treasure map

Rewards | Ectophial

Locations | Dragontooth Island

Music | Phasmatys Shipwrecked Dragontooth Island

Related | Quick guide Ectofuntus Pool of Slime Rune-Draw