 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to King Narnode Shareen in the Grand Tree . (You must have all the requirements to start the quest). Show on map

Official difficulty | Grandmaster

Official length | Very Long

Description | Glough, the war criminal set on eradicating humans and overthrowing Gielinor, has escaped the watch of the Grand Tree gnomes.
With a history of leaving large-scale conflicts and warfare in his wake, Glough must be tracked down and stopped. King Narnode Shareen needs your help.

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Enlightened Journey Balloon flight route to Gnome Stronghold must be unlocked to start the quest. The Eyes of Glouphrie Recipe for Disaster (Freeing King Awowogei ) Monkey Madness I The Grand Tree Tree Gnome Village Troll Stronghold Death Plateau Watchtower 69 Slayer ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 70 Crafting ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 60 Hunter ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 55 Agility ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 55 Thieving ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 60 Firemaking ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) (for Gnome Stronghold Route ) It is beneficial to have a high Combat and Agility level.

Items required | A lemon Grapes A pestle and mortar A pickaxe (if you choose the tanking route) Logs A light source A hammer (obtainable on island) A chisel (obtainable on island) An m'speak amulet A monkey talisman (obtainable on island) A ninja monkey greegree (small or medium) A slash weapon (to slash webs if you choose the tanking route - Wilderness sword of any tier recommended for this due to 100% web slash ability). The Translation book from The Grand Tree . If you have lost it a replacement can be obtained from King Narnode during the quest.

Recommended | Magic logs (for flying back to Gnome Stronghold ) Food ( monkfish or better) Stamina potions Prayer potions Antidote+ or Serpentine helm A good weapon Weight-reducing clothing such as Graceful outfit Armour with high Melee / Ranged Defence A one-click emergency teleport 90 Combat level

Enemies to defeat | Kruk (level 207) Keef (level 178) Kob (level 185) 7 Tortured gorillas (level 142) 2 Tortured gorillas (level 141) 2 Demonic gorillas (level 275) Glough (level 431)

Ironman concerns | The player briefly visits Entrana .

League notes | Unlocking Kandarin ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Getting Started [ edit | edit source ]

Chapter I [ edit | edit source ]

Items Required: Lemon , grapes , pestle and mortar , Translation book (if you kept it from The Grand Tree Quest), normal logs , no weapons or armour. Recommended: some magic logs (if you don't already have some in your balloon transport storage)

Chapter II [ edit | edit source ]

Items Required: ninja monkey greegree or ancient gorilla greegree , m'speak amulet , monkey talisman (or 1,000 coins), light source . Tank path also requires: slash weapon, pickaxe , plank . Recommended: Food, Dramen Staff , antipoison , combat equipment, super combat , stamina , and prayer potions .

Below is a map of Kruk's Dungeon . You have two different routes that they can take through the dungeon - one through the agility section of the dungeon (starting at the dodgy ground a little bit south), and one that goes through a series of rooms filled with aggressive mobs using both Melee and Ranged (extreme south). The player may choose which route to take, but the exact routes in each room varies from player to player - in each section/room there are two possible exits and only one will be correct for your player.

Chapter III [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: 20 coins, m'speak amulet , Kruk greegree , weapon and armour. Recommended: chisel , hammer , Ape Atoll teleport , Trollheim teleport , ring of dueling , food, 1-2 prayer potions (if melee), 1-2 stamina potions .

Chapter IV [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Weapon and armour to defeat tortured and demonic gorillas, food and prayer potions. Recommended: Slayer ring teleport , an emergency teleport .

Chapter V [ edit | edit source ]

Items needed: Weapon and armour to fight Glough, food and prayer potions. Recommended: An emergency teleport .

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

4 Quest points 80,000 Slayer experience 60,000 Agility experience 50,000 Thieving experience 50,000 Hunter experience 2x 50,000 experience rewards from Duke in your choice of Magic , Ranged , Attack , Defence , Strength or Hitpoints . Found on the hill east of main gate of Ape Atoll. (Walk up west hill, and climb the ladder to reach the east hill). You cannot be trained if you have not yet been trained by Daero after completing Monkey Madness I. This effectively prevents certain account builds from receiving the training. A Royal seed pod , which provides unlimited teleports to the Grand Tree (up to level 30 Wilderness ). Access to the Crash Site Cavern containing demonic gorillas . Access to a new maniacal monkey hunting area where Glough's laboratory used to be in Kruk's Dungeon . Access to Ape Atoll bank and Oobapohk's Javelin Store . Access to new glider spot directly to Ape Atoll. The ability to communicate with monkeys without the monkeyspeak amulet . All NPCs on the surface of Ape Atoll will be non-aggressive without requiring the use of Monkey greegrees . Ability to wield the heavy ballista . Various dragons will now drop dragon javelin heads . The ability to reclaim lost Greegrees from Zooknock in his Gnome Stronghold house (no supplies required). A Monkey can be found in one of the crates at the Crash Site. It is purely cosmetic and can be equipped in the cape slot. Bobawu will now track your laps of the Ape Atoll Agility Course , with you being able to transform your monkey into other variants upon completing a number of laps. The ability to re-fight Glough by gazing into the Burning brazier in Zooknock 's house.

v • t • e Monkey Madness II

NPCs | King Narnode Shareen Anita Assistant Lori Auguste Garkor Awowogei Nieve

Enemies | Kruk Kob Keef Assistant Le Smith Glough Maniacal Monkey Archer Maniacal monkey Stunted demonic gorilla Tortured gorilla Demonic gorilla

Items | Handkerchief Mysterious note Book of spyology Brush Juice-coated brush Scrawled note Translation book Translated note Bronze key Combat damaged key Combat scratched key Kruk's paw Kruk monkey greegree Satchel Charged onyx Deconstructed onyx Elysian spirit shield Nieve Unobtainable Combat scarred key |  | Handkerchief Mysterious note Book of spyology Brush Juice-coated brush Scrawled note Translation book Translated note Bronze key Combat damaged key Combat scratched key Kruk's paw Kruk monkey greegree Satchel Charged onyx Deconstructed onyx Elysian spirit shield Nieve | Unobtainable | Combat scarred key

 | Handkerchief Mysterious note Book of spyology Brush Juice-coated brush Scrawled note Translation book Translated note Bronze key Combat damaged key Combat scratched key Kruk's paw Kruk monkey greegree Satchel Charged onyx Deconstructed onyx Elysian spirit shield Nieve

Unobtainable | Combat scarred key

Rewards | Royal seed pod Monkey

Music | Monkey Badness Monkey Business Monkey Sadness Monkey Trouble Scape Ape

Related | Quick guide Transcript