 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details

Start point | Inspect Sir Amik Varze .

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Medium

Description | Sir Amik Varze requires a crème brulee supreme. Talk to the Cook to learn how to make one in this complicated but fun subquest.

Requirements | 107 Quest points Access to the Kharazi Jungle Started Legends' Quest Completion of the following quests: Family Crest Heroes' Quest Shield of Arrav Lost City Merlin's Crystal Dragon Slayer I Recipe for Disaster/Another Cook's Quest Cook's Assistant Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual Underground Pass Biohazard Plague City Waterfall Quest The ability to defeat a level 227 Black dragon

Items required | Bucket of milk (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Pot of cream (can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Pot of cornflour Sweetcorn (Can be picked from the sweetcorn fields south of Civitas illa Fortis in Varlamore without 20 Farming ( boostable ) ) Vanilla pod or tools to get one: Any axe (the Blessed axe will not work!) Any machete (as well as Radimus notes if you haven't completed Legends' Quest ) Dramen staff or Lunar staff to enter Zanaris if the Elite Lumbridge & Draynor diary has not been completed. Dramen branch to make cinnamon Pestle and mortar Ice gloves Raw chicken

Recommended | 70 Combat level Anti-dragon or dragonfire shield Antifire potion

Enemies to defeat | Evil Chicken (level varies) (see below) Black dragon (level 227)

Ironman concerns | The player visits Entrana Advised to collect your dramen branch beforehand as the brulee does not appear on death piles.

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Fremennik ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: A bucket of milk , pot of cream , a pot of cornflour , any axe, a machete , Radimus notes (only if you haven't completed the Legends' Quest), a vanilla pod , a dramen branch , a dramen staff , a pestle and mortar , ice gloves , a raw chicken , combat equipment to kill a black dragon and the evil chicken. Completion of Lost City and started Legends Quest .

Rewards

1 Quest point 4,000 Cooking experience 4,000 Hitpoints experience Access to the Evil Chicken's Lair , where you can fight black dragons (The fowl beast himself has moved on to other things.) Further access to the Culinaromancer's Chest .

Unlocks:

Evil Chicken accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

v • t • e Freeing Sir Amik Varze

 | Subquest of Recipe for Disaster

NPCs | Sir Amik Varze Wise Old Man K'klik Monsters Evil Chicken Black dragon |  | Sir Amik Varze Wise Old Man K'klik | Monsters | Evil Chicken Black dragon

 | Sir Amik Varze Wise Old Man K'klik

Monsters | Evil Chicken Black dragon

Items | Book on chickens Pot of cornflour Vanilla pod Cinnamon Evil chicken's egg Cornflour mixture Milky mixture Dragon token Brulee (vanilla) Brulee (egg) Brulee (raw) Brulee supreme Cornflour

Locations | Kharazi Jungle Zanaris Evil Chicken's Lair

Scenery | Vanilla plant

Music | Chickened Out

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide