 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details

Start point | Inspect the Lumbridge Guide .

Official difficulty | Special

Official length | Short

Description | You need a cake of guidance to protect the Lumbridge Guide. Wizard Traiborn in the Wizards' Tower can teach you how to make one.

Requirements | 40 Cooking ( boostable ) Completion of the following quests: Big Chompy Bird Hunting Biohazard Plague City Demon Slayer Murder Mystery Nature Spirit Priest in Peril The Restless Ghost Recipe for Disaster/Another Cook's Quest Cook's Assistant Witch's House

Items required | A bucket of milk An egg A pot of flour A cake tin (All required items can be bought from the Culinaromancer's Chest ) Recommended: Grouping teleport to Guardians of the Rift minigame Necklace of passage or access to fairy rings ( D I S ) and a Lunar / Dramen staff (for quick transportation to Wizards' Tower )

Enemies to defeat | None

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement Kandarin ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough

Items required: a bucket of milk, an egg, flour, a cake tin. Completion of Big Chompy Bird Hunting, Priest in Peril, Biohazard, Demon Slayer, Nature Spirit, The Restless Ghost, Witch's House, and Murder Mystery.

Rewards

1 Quest point 2,500 Cooking experience 2,500 Magic experience Further access to the Culinaromancer's Chest

v • t • e Freeing the Lumbridge Guide

 | Subquest of Recipe for Disaster

NPCs | Lumbridge Guide Wizard Traiborn ? ? ? ?

Items | Enchanted egg Enchanted flour Enchanted milk Raw guide cake Cake of guidance

Locations | Lumbridge

Music | Mastermindless

v • t • e Recipe for Disaster

Subquests | Another Cook's Quest Freeing the Goblin generals Freeing the Mountain Dwarf Freeing Evil Dave Freeing the Lumbridge Guide Freeing Pirate Pete Freeing Skrach Uglogwee Freeing Sir Amik Varze Freeing King Awowogei Defeating the Culinaromancer

Monsters | Agrith-Na-Na Flambeed Karamel Dessourt Gelatinnoth Mother Culinaromancer

Rewards | Antique lamp

Related | Culinaromancer's Chest Quick guide Full Guide