 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Talk to Mosol Rei outside of Shilo Village in the south part of Karamja . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Medium

Description | New areas in the southern part of Karamja Island have been discovered with a mysterious village.
Who knows what hidden treasures exist, and what dangers lurk to guard them?

Requirements | Completion of the following quests: Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual 20 Crafting ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) 32 Agility ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) Must be able to defend from many Undead ones (level 61-73) and able to defeat three monsters that are about level 90.

Items required | Spade A lit torch or candle ( lanterns or a Firemaking cape don't work) (a bruma torch will work, but you will not get this item back ) Rope Bronze wire (can be made from scratch using the General Store and Anvil north of Tai Bwo Wannai ) Chisel 3 regular bones (obtainable during quest, only normal bones work; a spare is a good idea in case you bury one) All required items (except for the bones and wire) can be bought at the general store in Tai Bwo Wannai for less than 100 coins. Bones can be obtained from the chicken (Level 3) south of Trufitus past the rotten fence, or the hobgoblins just north-west of the fairy ring.

Recommended | 45 Combat level Decent armour and a weapon Good food (enough to make it through two long tunnels of level 73 monsters) Stamina potions Antipoison ( poison can hit up to 11 each time; a combat level of 65 or higher will make the very poisonous tribesmen non-aggressive) Prayer potions to help protect against the undead Teleports (for leaving dangerous areas in a hurry; ring of dueling is helpful for access to a glider; necklace of passage , amulet of glory and several other viable options for easy access to fairy rings ). Papyrus and charcoal (only required if you lose an item during the quest) Access to the Gnome glider and fairy rings makes travelling easier (don't forget your Dramen staff ) Crumble Undead makes it easy to kill the 3 monsters. 4 Rogue kits could provide the chisel, rope, tinderbox, and spade you need in the temple, saving inventory space and weight.

Enemies to defeat | Nazastarool in 3 forms, levels 91, 68 and 93. Safespotting is possible.

Ironman concerns | 4 Smithing ( boostable ) (to make a bronze wire )

League notes | Unlocking Karamja ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Starting out [ edit | edit source ]

(Note: The quest will not be marked as Started in the quest log until after using the wampum belt on Trufitus , and following the appropriate chat options)

Ah Za Rhoon [ edit | edit source ]

Tomb of Bervirius [ edit | edit source ]

Bronze wire and a chisel are required for the next section. There is an anvil to the north-west of Trufitus ' hut if you have a hammer and bronze bar. You can buy both a hammer and a bronze bar from the General Store north-west of the anvil.

Tomb of Rashiliyia [ edit | edit source ]

Three regular bones are required in this section and the Bone shard from earlier as well as a Chisel.

Note: If you try to leave the cave the way you came in, the door will be locked and Rashiliyia will summon three Undead ones to kill you. You can however still leave by using the bone key on the doors.

Finishing up [ edit | edit source ]

Note: Dropping the Locating crystal , from the quest, will cause the player to take 5 - 10 damage . If the player has 10 or less hitpoints when they drop this item they will die .

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points 3,875 Crafting experience Access to Shilo Village Ability to quick travel to Shilo Village using the cart near the Brimhaven docks After completing the quest, you can sell every item you obtained during the quest to Yanni Salika in Shilo Village for a total of 2,000 — 100 each for the stone-plaque , tattered scroll , crumpled scroll , Bervirius notes and the bone key ; 500 for the locating crystal ; and 1000 for the beads of the dead . Ability to mine the gem rocks in Shilo Village mine .

Unlocks:

Nazastarool accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

Completion of Shilo Village is required for the following quests:

Recipe for Disaster - Freeing Sir Amik Varze Legends' Quest Lunar Diplomacy One Small Favour

Completion of Shilo Village is required for the following Achievement Diaries :

Medium Karamja Hard Karamja

v • t • e Shilo Village (quest)

NPCs | Mosol Rei Trufitus Spirit of Zadimus Rashiliyia King Danthalas Bervirius Enemies Nazastarool Undead one |  | Mosol Rei Trufitus Spirit of Zadimus Rashiliyia King Danthalas Bervirius | Enemies | Nazastarool Undead one

 | Mosol Rei Trufitus Spirit of Zadimus Rashiliyia King Danthalas Bervirius

Enemies | Nazastarool Undead one

Items | Wampum belt Stone-plaque Tattered scroll Crumpled scroll Zadimus corpse Bone shard Sword pommel Locating crystal Bervirius notes Bone beads Beads of the dead Bone key Rashiliyia corpse Coins (Shilo Village)

Locations | Shilo Village Ah Za Rhoon Tomb of Bervirius Rashiliyia's Tomb

Music | Ambient Jungle Oriental

Related | Quick guide Transcript