 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Brundt the Chieftain in Rellekka . Show on map

Official difficulty | Master

Official length | Medium

Description | The Fremennik bards often sing tales of the past. Of great battles, deadly foes and heroes long gone. However, in recent years, things have been much quieter in the Province, as there's increasingly less to sing about. All that is about to change though, as what starts off as a simple investigation soon leads to one of the greatest threats the Fremennik have ever seen.

Requirements | 65 Crafting ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 60 Slayer ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 60 Smithing ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 60 Fishing ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) 55 Runecraft ( not boostable ) ( required to start ) Completion of the following quests: The Fremennik Isles The Fremennik Trials Lunar Diplomacy Lost City Rune Mysteries Shilo Village Jungle Potion Druidic Ritual Mountain Daughter Heroes' Quest Dragon Slayer I Lost City Merlin's Crystal Shield of Arrav

Items required | Combat equipment Mirror shield 2 Kegs of beer (cannot be obtained in Rellekka during quest, buy from Thora the Barkeep before starting the quest) 1 Molten glass 100 Astral runes Pet rock Fishing rod or fly fishing rod Fremennik shield (this is not the tradeable Neitiznot shield ) Alternatively, get it from Bardur AFTER being exiled, for either 150,000 or for free using a Ring of charos (a) Recommended: Rune thrownaxes or 85 Agility to get to Bardur in the Waterbirth Island Dungeon Ice gloves or Smiths gloves (i) Hammer Glassblowing pipe 3 Lunar bars or ores . Alternatively a pickaxe to obtain them (requires 60 Mining ( boostable ) ). Seal of Passage (if the elite Fremennik diaries aren't completed)

Recommended | 80 Combat level Stamina potions Moonclan teleport (tablet)s Food , Monkfish or better Enchanted lyre , Fremennik sea boots or other means to return to Rellekka

Enemies to defeat | Basilisk Youngling (level 53) Basilisk (level 61) Monstrous Basilisk (level 135) Typhor (level 218) The Jormungand (level 363)

League notes | Fremennik ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

A disturbance in Rellekka [ edit | edit source ]

Items required: Mirror shield , 650 + if you still need 2 kegs of beer .

Recommended: a weapon to kill a level 53 Basilisk Youngling

Redeeming the exile [ edit | edit source ]

You can do the following sections in any order as long as you use them on each other while you have a glassblowing pipe .

Items required: Rune thrownaxe and pet rock for option 3.

Recommended : Stamina potions , food , Ring of charos (a) .

Items required : Seal of passage , molten glass , 100 astral runes , any pickaxe , hammer , and an amulet of glory for a fast teleport to a furnace.

Items required : Pet rock , Fishing rod , V sigil (e) , Lunar glass , Ice gloves , Glassblowing pipe , Fremennik shield .

Recommended: 2 teleports to the Mountain Camp ( Slayer ring or Fairy rings access code A J R ), a teleport back to Rellekka ( Enchanted Lyre or Fremennik Sea boots ) and stamina potion

Basilisks in the Market [ edit | edit source ]

Items required : V's shield , combat equipment, food, 2 kegs of beer (If you forgot to buy them at the quest start, buy them from Rasolo or on the Grand Exchange . Keg of beer from the table in the Longhall does not work.) You can go ahead and bring the recommended items for the next step as well.

Island of Stone [ edit | edit source ]

Items required : V's shield , combat equipment to fight Typhor (level 218) and The Jormungand (level 363), a one-handed weapon (must wield V's shield )

Recommended: 1-2 super restore(4) , high-healing food . Sarachnis Cudgel, Leaf-bladed battleaxe , Zombie axe , dragon mace , or a dragon warhammer are good weapon choices as the monster is weak to crush. Note that the Zombie helmet provides the highest crush boost of all helmets.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

2 Quest points V's shield Access to the Island of Stone Ability to kill a Basilisk Knight as a Slayer Task A Fremennik honorific, Dräpare, added to the player's Fremennik name Ability to create and equip the Neitiznot faceguard 50,000 Slayer experience 50,000 Crafting experience 30,000 Runecraft experience

v • t • e The Fremennik Exiles

NPCs | Brundt the Chieftain Freygerd Reeso Agnar Bardur Baba Yaga Peer the Seer Fossegrimen Haskell Thorvald the Warrior Koschei the Deathless Fremennik Warrior Enemies Basilisk Youngling Basilisk Monstrous Basilisk Typhor Vritra Bakuna The Jormungand |  | Brundt the Chieftain Freygerd Reeso Agnar Bardur Baba Yaga Peer the Seer Fossegrimen Haskell Thorvald the Warrior Koschei the Deathless Fremennik Warrior | Enemies | Basilisk Youngling Basilisk Monstrous Basilisk Typhor Vritra Bakuna The Jormungand

 | Brundt the Chieftain Freygerd Reeso Agnar Bardur Baba Yaga Peer the Seer Fossegrimen Haskell Thorvald the Warrior Koschei the Deathless Fremennik Warrior

Enemies | Basilisk Youngling Basilisk Monstrous Basilisk Typhor Vritra Bakuna The Jormungand

Items | Fang Venom gland Unsealed letter Fremennik shield Molten glass (i) Lunar glass Lunar ore Lunar bar Polishing rock V sigil V sigil (e) V's shield

Locations | Rellekka Mountain Camp Island of Stone Jormungand's Prison

Music | Ballad of the Basilisk Fight of the Basilisk Jaws of the Basilisk Lair of the Basilisk Reign of the Basilisk

Related | Quick guide Large Geyser Basilisk Knight Ballad of the basilisk Basilisk jaw Neitiznot faceguard Transcript V