 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to the squire in the courtyard of the White Knights' Castle in Falador . Show on map

Official difficulty | Intermediate

Official length | Short

Description | Sir Vyvin's squire is in trouble. He has accidentally lost Sir Vyvin's ceremonial sword. Help him find a replacement without Sir Vyvin finding out.

Requirements | 10 Mining ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) The ability to run from level 57 ice warriors and level 53 ice giants could help.

Items required | Redberry pie (not half a redberry pie ), (Members can purchase one from Romily Weaklax in the Cooks' Guild ) 2 iron bars (4 if you want your own blurite sword ) (one spawns west of the Graveyard of Shadows in the Wilderness ) Blurite ore (2 if you want your own blurite sword; it is obtained/obtainable during the quest) (If you plan on doing Falador easy diary AND making a second sword, mine a third blurite ore [members only]) Any pickaxe (one spawns in south Falador)

Recommended | 20 Combat level Fast travel to Varrock ( Varrock teleport ) Fast travel to Falador ( Falador teleport ) (Members only) Fast travel to Rimmington ( Pest Control minigame teleport, Fairy Rings to A I Q , Rimmington Teleport or Teleport to House if the player's house is in the village) Armour and some food for aggressive enemies near the blurite rocks

Enemies to defeat | None

Ironman concerns | 15 Smithing (not needed if obtaining iron bar from drops) 15 Mining (not needed if obtaining iron bar from drops) 10 Cooking (Pie dish can be found easily in the kitchen of Varrock Palace, and can be cooked there as well. Best to come here after speaking to Reldo ) or partial completion of Perilous Moons to purchase a Redberry pie from Yarnio For ironmen to obtain the iron bars, head to the trees located in level 18 Wilderness next to the bears west of the Graveyard of Shadows. A safer alternative is to kill dwarves in the mines under Falador. For Members accounts that wish to avoid combat entirely, there is an iron bar that spawns inside Thurid's Brain Buckets . This requires completion of the Children of the Sun quest in order to gain access to Varlamore .

League notes | Asgarnia ✓ — location requirement

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 12,725 Smithing experience A blurite sword (if you got Thurgo to make you an extra one) The ability to smelt blurite ore into blurite bars (members only)

v • t • e The Knight's Sword

NPCs | Squire Sir Vyvin Reldo Thurgo

Items | Portrait Blurite ore Blurite sword

Locations | White Knights' Castle Varrock Palace Library Mudskipper Point Asgarnian Ice Dungeon

Related | Quick guide Transcript