 | This quest has an in-depth guide . It contains a more detailed description of dialogue, cutscenes, and storyline.

Details [ edit | edit source ]

Start point | Speak to Mord Gunnars at the northernmost dock of Rellekka . Show on map

Official difficulty | Experienced

Official length | Medium

Description | Sibling rivalry can get messy - more so when the siblings are Fremennik princes with a point to prove. The islands of Jatizso and Neitiznot were set up by two brothers who hated each other, and they have been at loggerheads ever since. But now there is a new threat from trolls in the north...
Can you prove your loyalty to both brothers and save the islanders from a fate as troll food? Your skills as a Fremennik warrior, a bridge builder and... a jester will be tested on the islands.

Requirements | Completion of The Fremennik Trials 20 Construction ( boostable ) ( not required to start ) [1] The ability to kill a level 122 Troll King (Damage can be reduced) and, separately, 10 rock throwing ice trolls in a multicombat area .

Items required | A raw tuna (obtainable during quest, with 35 fishing or bought from the shop) Either 8 tin ores , 7 pieces of coal , or 6 mithril ores (depends on your Mining level; level 1 will require tin ore, 2-54 will require coal, and 55-99 require mithril ore). Note: The ores can be noted. 9 ropes (obtainable during quest with 30 Crafting ) If the Neitiznot shield is already purchased, only 8 ropes are required. A knife 8 split logs (obtainable during the quest with 56 Woodcutting and an axe) a Neitiznot shield (or 56 Woodcutting, a hammer and a bronze nail ) Yak-hide armour top and legs (or 46 Crafting, a needle and two thread ) 5000 coins (optional) Silly jester costume (obtainable during quest)

Recommended | 50 Combat level 40 Agility ( boostable ) to optionally go to the Central Fremennik Isles mine 43 for Protect from Melee A Catspeak amulet for amusing dialogue during the initial conversation with Jatizso's king Food / armour at all times (in case you get attacked by trolls on the northern island) Prayer potions - as there is no altar close by Good combat equipment to kill 10 low- Defence , high- Attack monsters, and one level 122 A melee weapon and decent melee stats - as the Ice Troll King has very high Ranged and Magic Defence An emergency teleport

Enemies to defeat | 10 Ice Trolls (level 74-82) Ice Troll King (level 122)

Ironman concerns | 56 Woodcutting Required to make a Neitiznot shield with a hammer and one bronze nail 46 Crafting Required to make yak-hide armour with a needle and a thread An axe The player will need to hand 17 items in at once.

League notes | Unlocking Fremennik ✓ will auto-complete the quest

Walkthrough [ edit | edit source ]

Note : There is a bank on the isles so for the most part you do not have to worry about keeping all items in your inventory.

The jester outfit [ edit | edit source ]

Items required : Raw tuna , tin / coal / mithril ores (based on mining levels, see item requirements above)

The spymaster's first task [ edit | edit source ]

Items required : Silly jester hat, silly jester top, silly jester tights, silly jester boots

Bridge repairs [ edit | edit source ]

Items required : 8 rope , 8 split logs , a knife , one free inventory space

Optional : Food, Prayer potions , armour to tank the level 85 Ice trolls.

Note : Keep Protect from Missiles on at all times while repairing the bridges as any damage taken is stacked and applied after the bridge repair animation completes.

The king's tax collector [ edit | edit source ]

Optional items : 5000 coins for black market yak trading after the quest

The spymaster's second task [ edit | edit source ]

Items required : Silly jester hat ; Silly jester top ; Silly jester tights ; Silly jester boots ; Yak-hide armour (top) and Yak-hide armour (legs) OR 15 coins , needle , one or more thread , and three yak hide ; Neitiznot shield OR two Arctic pine logs , one bronze nail , a hammer , and rope .

The troll king [ edit | edit source ]

Items required : Neitiznot shield , one-handed weapon, food, Prayer potions , combat potions, emergency teleport.

Note : Use a Melee weapon as the troll king has high Magic and Ranged Defence.

 | This fight takes place in an instance . On death , all unprotected items will be moved to a grave outside the instance. Any items left on the ground will be lost.

Note : This is a multi-combat zone. Melee and Ranged Ice Trolls will attack you.

Rewards [ edit | edit source ]

1 Quest point 5,000 Construction experience 5,000 Crafting experience 10,000 Woodcutting experience Two lots of 10,000 Combat experience (choose between Strength , Attack , Defence or Hitpoints ). A Fremennik royal helm known as the helm of Neitiznot , which is the equivalent of a berserker helm with a +3 Prayer bonus , slightly better Magic and crush Defence , and no negative bonuses. If a player loses the helm, they can talk to Mawnis Burowgar to buy another one for 50,000 coins . Access to arctic pine trees. Access to an island with a runite rock north-east of Neitiznot , which also has seven (7) coal rocks nearby. Access to the Jatizso mine , which contains up to adamantite rocks . Around 20,000 coins in assorted rewards during quest. The banks in Neitiznot and Jatizso are close to water , range , furnace , fishing spots , mining ores ; a spinning wheel is also nearby. If the jester outfit is lost, a player can retrieve another one from the chest behind King Gjuki Sorvott IV 's throne. Learn the ability to create yak-hide armour and Neitiznot shields . The Contraband Yak Produce shop is available on Jatizso if a player refunds the 5,000 coin tax to Vanligga Gastfrihet , who is north of the king.

Unlocks:

Ice Troll King accessible in the Nightmare Zone .

Required for completing [ edit | edit source ]

The Fremennik Exiles

v • t • e The Fremennik Isles

NPCs | Mord Gunnars Maria Gunnars Jatizso King Gjuki Sorvott IV Thorkel Silkbeard HRH Hrafn Vanligga Gastfrihet Flosi Dalksson Hring Hring Keepa Kettilon Raum Urda-Stein Skuli Myrka Bork Sigmundson Neitiznot Mawnis Burowgar Fridleif Shieldson Kjedelig Uppsen Trogen Konungarde Slug Hemligssen Thakkrad Sigmundson Honour guard Enemies Ice Troll King |  | Mord Gunnars Maria Gunnars | Jatizso | King Gjuki Sorvott IV Thorkel Silkbeard HRH Hrafn Vanligga Gastfrihet Flosi Dalksson Hring Hring Keepa Kettilon Raum Urda-Stein Skuli Myrka Bork Sigmundson | Neitiznot | Mawnis Burowgar Fridleif Shieldson Kjedelig Uppsen Trogen Konungarde Slug Hemligssen Thakkrad Sigmundson Honour guard | Enemies | Ice Troll King

 | Mord Gunnars Maria Gunnars

Jatizso | King Gjuki Sorvott IV Thorkel Silkbeard HRH Hrafn Vanligga Gastfrihet Flosi Dalksson Hring Hring Keepa Kettilon Raum Urda-Stein Skuli Myrka Bork Sigmundson

Neitiznot | Mawnis Burowgar Fridleif Shieldson Kjedelig Uppsen Trogen Konungarde Slug Hemligssen Thakkrad Sigmundson Honour guard

Enemies | Ice Troll King

Items | Hair Split log Arctic pine logs Royal decree Yak-hide Cured yak-hide Yak-hide body Yak-hide legs Neitiznot shield Decapitated head Helm of neitiznot Silly jester costume Hat Top Tights Boots Tax bag Empty Light Normal Hefty Bulging Unobtainable A jester stick Apricot cream pie Documents |  | Hair Split log Arctic pine logs Royal decree Yak-hide Cured yak-hide Yak-hide body Yak-hide legs Neitiznot shield Decapitated head Helm of neitiznot | Silly jester costume | Hat Top Tights Boots | Tax bag | Empty Light Normal Hefty Bulging | Unobtainable | A jester stick Apricot cream pie Documents

 | Hair Split log Arctic pine logs Royal decree Yak-hide Cured yak-hide Yak-hide body Yak-hide legs Neitiznot shield Decapitated head Helm of neitiznot

Silly jester costume | Hat Top Tights Boots

Tax bag | Empty Light Normal Hefty Bulging

Unobtainable | A jester stick Apricot cream pie Documents

Locations | Jatizso Jatizso mine Neitiznot Rellekka Ice Troll Caves

Music | The Fremennik Kings Island of the Trolls Jester Minute King of the Trolls Major Miner Norse Code Ogre the Top Volcanic Vikings

Related | Quick guide Transcript Contraband Yak Produce